  Then what could death do if thou shouldst depart,
    To be death's conquest and make worms thine heir.
  And barren rage of death's eternal cold?
  Nor shall death brag thou wand'rest in his shade,
  Then look I death my days should expiate.
  For precious friends hid in death's dateless night,
  When that churl death my bones with dust shall cover
  Sinks down to death, oppressed with melancholy.
  'Gainst death, and all-oblivious enmity
    This thought is as a death which cannot choose
  Tired with all these for restful death I cry,
  After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
  Death's second self that seals up all in rest.
  As the death-bed, whereon it must expire,
  From hence your memory death cannot take,
  A vengeful canker eat him up to death.
  My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
    So shall thou feed on death, that feeds on men,
    And death once dead, there's no more dying then.
  Desire is death, which physic did except.
  BERTRAM. And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death anew;
    immortal, and death should have play for lack of work. Would, for
    the King's sake, he were living! I think it would be the death of
    Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
    As one near death to those that wish him live.
    That ministers thine own death if I die.
    And well deserv'd. Not helping, death's my fee;
  LAFEU. Uncertain life and sure death.
    Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever,
    His death was so effected. Better 'twere
    Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth.
    He is too good and fair for death and me;
    makes her story true even to the point of her death. Her death
  PAROLLES. O Lord, sir, let me live, or let me see my death!
  DIANA. Let death and honesty
  COUNTESS. I would I had not known him. It was the death of the most
    you, since I heard of the good lady's death, and that my lord
    Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
    unkindness is to them; if they suffer our departure, death's the
    in death, which commits some loving act upon her, she hath such a
    The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,
    Is Fulvia's death.
    In Fulvia's death how mine receiv'd shall be.
    Pleas'd fortune does of Marcus Crassus' death
    So the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
    Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt-
    Her head's declin'd, and death will seize her but
    I'll make death love me; for I will contend
    Married to your good service, stay till death.
    Than death and honour. Let's to supper, come,
  CENTURION. The hand of death hath raught him.
    Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
    And bring me how he takes my death. To th' monument!
    She hath betray'd me, and shall die the death.
  MARDIAN. Death of one person can be paid but once,
    Than she which by her death our Caesar tells
    Of Antony's death.                            [Kills himself
    A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
  DERCETAS. Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
    Sufficing strokes for death.
  DIOMEDES. His death's upon him, but not dead.
    I here importune death awhile, until
    To rush into the secret house of death
    Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?
    And make death proud to take us. Come, away;
    And citizens to their dens. The death of Antony
  CLEOPATRA. What, of death too,
    His nobleness well acted, which your death
  CLEOPATRA. Where art thou, death?
    The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
    Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
    I faint almost to death.
    bring it for food to thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy
    powers. For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at the
    Whose heart th' accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
    so, come death! Two o'clock is your hour?
    death, thy liberty into bondage. I will deal in poison with thee,
  SILVIUS. Though to have her and death were both one thing.
  And by the doom of death end woes and all.
  To Epidamnum; till my factor's death,
  A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
  And happy were I in my timely death,
  But though thou art adjudged to the death,
  He gains by death that hath such means to die.
  The place of death and sorry execution,
ANGELO. See where they come; we will behold his death.
AEGEON. Unless the fear of death doth make me dote,
    Condemning some to death and some to exile;
    If any think brave death outweighs bad life
    And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses-
    Death, that dark spirit, in's nervy arm doth lie,
    And fell below his stem. His sword, death's stamp,
    That's sure of death without it- at once pluck out
  SICINIUS. This deserves death.
    Of present death.
    He heard the name of death.                 [A noise within]
    Our certain death; therefore it is decreed
    What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
    Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels;
    Thy dangerous stoutness; for I mock at death
    For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them,
    If I say fine, cry 'Fine!'- if death, cry 'Death!'
    Deserves th' extremest death.
    Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
    I had fear'd death, of all the men i' th' world
    hanging, or of some death more long in spectatorship and crueller
    They'll give him death by inches.
    With bonds of death! Remain, remain thou here
  IMOGEN. There cannot be a pinch in death
    Which are the movers of a languishing death,
    No danger in what show of death it makes,
    Five times redeem'd from death. I do not know
    O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!
    Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
    And strokes death to her.
    To death or to dishonour, and my end
    Thy condemnation and thy death.
  CLOTEN. Die the death.
    Or what his death will bring us.
  GUIDERIUS. What does he mean? Since death of my dear'st mother
    Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his right cheek
    Of Cloten's death- we being not known, not muster'd
    Which we have done, whose answer would be death,
    Is every breath a death. And thus unknown,
    Could not find death where I did hear him groan,
    Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
    By th' sure physician death, who is the key
  GAOLER. Come, sir, are you ready for death?
  GAOLER. Your death has eyes in's head, then; I have not seen him so
    By med'cine'life may be prolong'd, yet death
    Bitter to me as death; your life, good master,
  BELARIUS. Is not this boy reviv'd from death?
    To death with mortal joy.
    It was my instant death. By accident
    (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
    Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
    Is by a forged process of my death
    More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
    His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
      As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
    chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
    For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
    But that the dread of something after death-
    Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
    O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
    The death I gave him. So again, good night.
    The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
    To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
    The imminent death of twenty thousand men
    All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
    For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
    With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
    Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
    That I am guiltless of your father's death,
    His means of death, his obscure funeral-
    to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
    And for his death no wind
    Under the moon, can save the thing from death
    It may be death.
    To muddy death.
    guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
    As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
    He should the bearers put to sudden death,
    Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
    Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
  Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
    He never gave commandment for their death.
    And on my face he turn'd an eye of death,
  Wor. And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
    His brother's death at Bristow, the Lord Scroop.
    was the death of him.
    Well, I doubt not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
    Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death
    foot; and I know, his death will be a march of twelve score. The
    of a death's-head or a memento mori. I never see thy face but I
    Of death or death's hand for this one half-year.
  Prince. Why, thou owest God a death.
    The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
    If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
    Lord Stafford's death.
    That ever said I heark'ned for your death.
    But that the earthy and cold hand of death
    Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
    upon my death, I gave him this wound in the thigh. If the man
  King. Bear Worcester to the death, and Vernon too;
    Stoop'd his anointed head as low as death.
    The King is almost wounded to the death;
    Where hateful death put on his ugliest mask
    And I my Percy's death ere thou report'st it.
    The tongue offends not that reports his death;
    In few, his death- whose spirit lent a fire
    eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with
    Proper to madmen, led his powers to death,
    Then death rock me asleep, abridge my doleful days!
  FALSTAFF. Peace, good Doll! Do not speak like a death's-head; do
    That with the hurly death itself awakes?
  SHALLOW. Certain, 'tis certain; very sure, very sure. Death, as the
  SHALLOW. Death is certain. Is old Double of your town living yet?
    a death. I'll ne'er bear a base mind. An't be my destiny, so;
    For he hath found to end one doubt by death
    Turning the word to sword, and life to death.
    Some guard these traitors to the block of death,
    of thy lovers, and they weep for thy death; therefore rouse up
    Stretches itself beyond the hour of death.
    My sleep my death?
    Were thine without offense; and at my death
    Acting that argument. And now my death
  DOLL. Goodman death, goodman bones!
    Till then I banish thee, on pain of death,
    The grave doth gape and doting death is near;
    His sovereign's life to death and treachery!
    And I repent my fault more than my death;
    Receiv'd the golden earnest of our death;
    Poor miserable wretches, to your death;
    ay, or go to death. And I'll pay't as valorously as I may, that
    A damned death!
    But Exeter hath given the doom of death
    for they purpose not their death when they purpose their
    death they have borne life away; and where they would be safe
    death is to him advantage; or not dying, the time was blessedly
  CONSTABLE. They have said their prayers and they stay for death.
    And so, espous'd to death, with blood he seal'd
    Here was a royal fellowship of death!
    And be it death proclaimed through our host
    That have consented unto Henry's death!
    And death's dishonourable victory
    Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
    Him I forgive my death that killeth me,
    With Henry's death the English circle ends;
    Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.
    pain of death.
    Which I disdaining scorn'd, and craved death
    None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
    You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
    The treacherous manner of his mournful death,
    As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
    A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
    And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
    Just Death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
    And did upbraid me with my father's death;
    And death approach not ere my tale be done.
    And that my fainting words do warrant death.
    And humble service till the point of death.
    And run a tilt at death within a chair?
    When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
    That whoso draws a sword 'tis present death,
    Not fearing death nor shrinking for distress,
    Henceforth we banish thee on pain of death.
    death,
    On us thou canst not enter but by death;
    But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
    That sund'red friends greet in the hour of death.
    To beat assailing death from his weak legions;
    Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
  TALBOT. Fly to revenge my death, if I be slain.
    Upon my death the French can little boast;
    If death be so apparent, then both fly.
    I gave thee life and rescu'd thee from death.
    Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
    My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame.
    Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
  TALBOT. Thou antic Death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
    O thou whose wounds become hard-favoured Death,
    Brave Death by speaking, whether he will or no;
    Had Death been French, then Death had died to-day.
    Must I behold thy timeless cruel death?
    Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
    Although ye hale me to a violent death.
    But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
  SALISBURY. Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
    But him outlive, and die a violent death.
    But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
    Demanding of King Henry's life and death
    Who, after Edward the Third's death, reign'd as king
    Such as by God's book are adjudg'd to death.
  DUCHESS. Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
    touching the Duke of York, I will take my death I never meant him
    For by his death we do perceive his guilt;
    Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
    For none abides with me. My joy is death-
    Death, at whose name I oft have been afeard,
    And if my death might make this island happy
    But yet we want a colour for his death.
    More than mistrust, that shows him worthy death.
  YORK. 'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
  QUEEN. So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
    Resign to death- it is not worth th' enjoying.
    For in the shade of death I shall find joy-
    In life but double death,'now Gloucester's dead.
    Yet he most Christian-like laments his death;
    This get I by his death. Ay me, unhappy!
    Until they hear the order of his death.
    And comment then upon his sudden death.
    For, seeing him, I see my life in death.
    Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
  SUFFOLK. Why, Warwick, who should do the Duke to death?
    As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
    That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
    Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
    And torture him with grievous ling'ring death.
    They say in him they fear your Highness' death;
    In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
    But three days longer, on the pain of death.
    That Cardinal Beaufort is at point of death;
    From thee to die were torture more than death.
    This way fall I to death.
  CARDINAL. If thou be'st Death I'll give thee England's treasure,
    Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
  WARWICK. See how the pangs of death do make him grin
  WARWICK. So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
    How now! Why start'st thou? What, doth death affright?
  SUFFOLK. Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
    And thou that smil'dst at good Duke Humphrey's death
  WHITMORE. Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
    That this my death may never be forgot-
    Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
    Sir Humphrey Stafford and his brother's death
    They call false caterpillars and intend their death.
    Whom have I injur'd, that ye seek my death?
    Expect your Highness' doom of life or death.
    Or unto death, to do my country good.
  CLIFFORD. Are these thy bears? We'll bait thy bears to death,
    What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian
    I am resolv'd for death or dignity.
    For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
    Hath made the wizard famous in his death.
    You have defended me from imminent death.
    As shall revenge his death before I stir.
  RICHARD. Your right depends not on his life or death.
  RUTLAND. O, let me pray before I take my death!
    Like men born to renown by life or death.
    And if thine eyes can water for his death,
    That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
    Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
    That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
    And every drop cries vengeance for his death
  CLIFFORD. Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
    Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
    Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
    Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
    And in that quarrel use it to the death.
  EDWARD. Smile, gentle heaven, or strike, ungentle death;
    And in the very pangs of death he cried,
    'Warwick, revenge! Brother, revenge my death.'
    Till either death hath clos'd these eyes of mine
    And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
    For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.            Exeunt
    O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
  SON. How will my mother for a father's death
  SON. Was ever son so rued a father's death?
    Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
    Had left no mourning widows for our death;
    A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
    That nothing sung but death to us and ours.
    Now death shall stop his dismal threat'ning sound,
    Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
    Which in the time of death he gave our father.
  LADY GREY. My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
    Was done to death; and more than so, my father,
    When nature brought him to the door of death?
    My father came untimely to his death?
    These eyes, that now are dimm'd with death's black veil,
    Or else you famish- that's a threefold death.
    Here sheathe thy sword; I'll pardon thee my death.
    What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
    Orphans for their parents' timeless death-
    See how my sword weeps for the poor King's death.
    And then to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
  CHAMBERLAIN. Death! my lord,
  SECOND GENTLEMAN. I do not think he fears death.
    The law I bear no malice for my death:
    Your master wed me to: nothing but death
    After his patient's death: the King already
    Till death, that winter, kill it.
  KATHARINE. O Griffith, sick to death!
  KATHARINE. After my death I wish no other herald,
    Out of this world. Tell him in death I bless'd him,
    Almost each pang a death.
    Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
    His lands to me, and took it on his death
    Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
  ARTHUR. God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
    O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
    The other's peace. Till then, blows, blood, and death!
    At your industrious scenes and acts of death.
    More free from motion-no, not Death himself
    That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
    That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas;
    Which only lives but by the death of faith,
    That faith would live again by death of need.
    Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
  KING JOHN. Death.
    Death, death; O amiable lovely death!
    The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
  PEMBROKE. Indeed, we heard how near his death he was,
    No certain life achiev'd by others' death.
    Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths;
    Cuts off his tale, and talks of Arthur's death.
    Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
    I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
    Between my conscience and my cousin's death.
  PEMBROKE. O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
  SALISBURY. O, he is bold, and blushes not at death!
    Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,
    Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
    A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
  SALISBURY. Wounded to death.
  MELUN. Have I not hideous death within my view,
    For I do see the cruel pangs of death
    Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
    Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death should sing.
    Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
  OCTAVIUS, Triumvir after Caesar's death, later Augustus Caesar,
  MARK ANTONY, general and friend of Caesar, a Triumvir after his death
    Set honor in one eye and death i' the other
    The name of honor more than I fear death.
  BRUTUS. It must be by his death, and, for my part,
    Like wrath in death and envy afterwards;
    The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
    The valiant never taste of death but once.
    Seeing that death, a necessary end,
    Will crowd a feeble man almost to death.
    Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
  BRUTUS. Grant that, and then is death a benefit;
    His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
    How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
    As Caesar's death's hour, nor no instrument
    No place will please me so, no means of death,
  BRUTUS. O Antony, beg not your death of us!
    Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death
    And show the reason of our Caesar's death.
    Of Caesar's death.
    and death for his ambition. Who is here so base that would be a
    than you shall do to Brutus. The question of his death is
    worthy, nor his offenses enforced, for which he suffered death.
    no hand in his death, shall receive the benefit of his dying, a
    to need my death.
  SECOND CITIZEN. Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
  POET. [Within.] Nothing but death shall stay me.
    Have made themselves so strong- for with her death
    Have put to death an hundred senators.
    By which I did blame Cato for the death
    Kill Brutus, and be honor'd in his death.
    And no man else hath honor by his death.
     Unburthen'd crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall,
     The moment is thy death. Away! By Jupiter,
     of unnaturalness between the child and the parent; death,
  Lear. I'll tell thee. [To Goneril] Life and death! I am asham'd
     He that conceals him, death.
     If they not thought the profits of my death
     'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
  Lear. Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
     For the sound man.- Death on my state! Wherefore
     Till it cry sleep to death.
  Lear. Death, traitor! nothing could have subdu'd nature
     His daughters seek his death. Ah, that good Kent!
     disposition made him seek his death; but a provoking merit, set
     I have o'erheard a plot of death upon him.
     And in the end meet the old course of death,
  Edm. Yours in the ranks of death!                        Exit.
     To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort
     Upon the British party. O, untimely death! Death!
     Of the death-practis'd Duke, For him 'tis well
     That of thy death and business I can tell.
     That with the pain of death would hourly die
    And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
    the death of the deer? And, to humour the ignorant, call the deer
        That the lover, sick to death,
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. No, to the death, we will not move a foot,
  BEROWNE. A death's face in a ring.
    For the remembrance of my father's death.
    The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
  BEROWNE. To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
    Our bosom interest. Go pronounce his present death,
    By Sinel's death I know I am Thane of Glamis;
    Strange images of death. As thick as hail
    As one that had been studied in his death,
    Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
    Upon his death?
    That death and nature do contend about them,
    The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath,
    Lamentings heard i' the air, strange screams of death,
    Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
    And look on death itself! Up, up, and see
    Which in his death were perfect.
    The least a death to nature.
    In riddles and affairs of death,
    He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
    To add the death of you.
    Death of thy soul! Those linen cheeks of thine
    I will not be afraid of death and bane
    The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
    Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
    I would not wish them to a fairer death.
    Than fall and bruise to death. Alas! this gentleman,
    Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
  ESCALUS. It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
    He's not prepar'd for death. Even for our kitchens
    That is, were I under the terms of death,
    And strip myself to death as to a bed
    Or else he must not only die the death,
    But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
    And fit his mind to death, for his soul's rest.         Exit
  DUKE. Be absolute for death; either death or life
    Hourly afflict. Merely, thou art Death's fool;
    Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
    And Death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
    Lie hid moe thousand deaths; yet death we fear,
    And, seeking death, find life. Let it come on.
    But fetter you till death.
    The sense of death is most in apprehension;
  ISABELLA. Be ready, Claudio, for your death to-morrow.
  CLAUDIO. Death is a fearful thing.
    To what we fear of death.
    I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
    therefore prepare yourself to death. Do not satisfy your
  ISABELLA. What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid from
    him for th' entertainment of death.
    Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death;
  PROVOST. A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but as a
  DUKE. In the delaying death.
  DUKE. O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it. Shave
    penitent to be so bar'd before his death. You know the course is
    perchance of the Duke's death, perchance entering into some
    to rise and be put to death.
  DUKE. A creature unprepar'd, unmeet for death;
    Immediate sentence then, and sequent death,
    Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
    It was the swift celerity of his death,
    That life is better life, past fearing death,
    'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
    Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
    Away with him to death! [To LUCIO] Now, sir, to you.
  DUKE. He dies for Claudio's death.
    That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
  LUCIO. Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death, whipping,
  NERISSA. Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at their death
    to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth than to either of
    A carrion Death, within whose empty eye
    ginger or made her neighbours believe she wept for the death of a
    And wat'ry death-bed for him. He may win;
    but see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your pleasure; if
    Meetest for death; the weakest kind of fruit
    To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
    Say how I lov'd you; speak me fair in death;
    Upon his death unto the gentleman
    That you would wear it till your hour of death,
    After his death, of all he dies possess'd of.
    gold, and silver, is her grandsire upon his death's-bed-Got
    And bowl'd to death with turnips.
    was shelvy and shallow-a death that I abhor; for the water
    death.
    in nativity, chance, or death. Away.
    Or to her death, according to our law
  THESEUS. Either to die the death, or to abjure
    To death, or to a vow of single life.
    War, death, or sickness, did lay siege to it,
    Cruel Death of Pyramus and Thisby.'
    Either death or you I'll find immediately.              Exit
    Whom I do love and will do till my death.
    Which death, or absence, soon shall remedy.
    Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep
    With league whose date till death shall never end.
    her death.                                              Exit
    'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
  THISBY. Tide life, tide death, I come without delay.
  THESEUS. This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go
  Con. To the death, my lord.
  John. What life is in that to be the death of this marriage?
    Out of myself, press me to death with wit!
    It were a better death than die with mocks,
    Death is the fairest cover for her shame
    Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
    The supposition of the lady's death
    And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
    My heart is sorry for your daughter's death;
    sweet lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me hear
    which I had rather seal with my death than repeat over to my
    I thank you princes for my daughter's death.
        Done to death by slanderous tongues
        Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
        Lives in death with glorious fame.
        Till death be uttered
    I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death.
    have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
    Therefore my hopes, not surfeited to death,
    May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
  MONTANO. 'Zounds, I bleed still; I am hurt to the death.
    'Tis destiny unshunnable, like death.
  OTHELLO.             Death and damnation! O!
    To furnish me with some swift means of death
    necessity in his death that you shall think yourself bound to put
  RODERIGO. Nobody come? Then shall I bleed to death.
  DESDEMONA. That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
    'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.
  DESDEMONA. A guiltless death I die.
    Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
    The death of Cassio to be undertook
    That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
    Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death-
    Despite of death, that lives upon my grave
    In some large measure to thy father's death
    The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
    Hath caus'd his death; the which if wrongfully,
  MARSHAL. On pain of death, no person be so bold
    Not sick, although I have to do with death,
    What is thy sentence, then, but speechless death,
    And blindfold death not let me see my son.
    Thy word is current with him for my death,
    My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
    How happy then were my ensuing death!
    Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
    Though death be poor, it ends a mortal woe.
    Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment,
  NORTHUMBERLAND. Not so; even through the hollow eyes of death
    A parasite, a keeper-back of death,
    These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
    Condemns you to the death. See them delivered over
    To execution and the hand of death.
  BUSHY. More welcome is the stroke of death to me
    Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
    The worst is death, and death will have his day.
    Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
    And nothing can we can our own but death
    And tell sad stories of the death of kings:
    Keeps Death his court; and there the antic sits,
    And fight and die is death destroying death,
    Where fearing dying pays death servile breath.
  QUEEN. O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
    What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death;
    In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted
    In this your cousin's death.
    There is my gage, the manual seal of death
    That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
    Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France,
    As from my death-bed, thy last living leave.
    To worthy danger and deserved death.
    The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
  KING RICHARD. How now! What means death in this rude assault?
    Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
    That makes us wretched by the death of thee
    More miserable by the death of him
    O God, which this blood mad'st, revenge his death!
    O earth, which this blood drink'st, revenge his death!
    To undertake the death of all the world
  ANNE. Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
    For now they kill me with a living death.
    Told the sad story of my father's death,
    And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
  ANNE. Arise, dissembler; though I wish thy death,
  GLOUCESTER. Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
    Than death can yield me here by my abode.
    That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
    Long mayest thou live to wail thy children's death,
    Long die thy happy days before thy death;
    Witness my son, now in the shade of death,
    His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
    Sin, death, and hell, have set their marks on him,
    What sights of ugly death within my eyes!
  KEEPER. Had you such leisure in the time of death
    The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
    To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
    Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
    'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
  KING EDWARD. Have I a tongue to doom my brother's death,
    And yet his punishment was bitter death.
    Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
    Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
    As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
    You cannot guess who caus'd your father's death.
    I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
    Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
    But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms
  SON. Ah, aunt, you wept not for our father's death!
    death?
    Or let me die, to look on death no more!
    Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
    Which by his death hath lost much majesty.
    God knows I will not do it to the death.
    This day those enernies are put to death,
RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN, to death
  RICHARD the Second here was hack'd to death;
  RATCLIFF. Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
    That do conspire my death with devilish plots
    I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
    Proceed thus rashly in the villain's death
  MAYOR. Now, fair befall you! He deserv'd his death;
    Misconster us in him and wail his death.
    Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen
    Death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels;
    If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
    O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
    Than thou hast made me by my dear lord's death.'
    Will tempt unto a close exploit of death?
    When thou shalt tell the process of their death.
    And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
    A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death.
    And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
    Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.        Exit
    My babes were destin'd to a fairer death,
    And I, in such a desp'rate bay of death,
  KING RICHARD. My father's death-
    Death, desolation, ruin, and decay.
    death?                                      [He strikes him]
    to-morrow! I that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
    Poor Clarence, by thy guile betray'd to death!
    And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
    Dream on, dream on of bloody deeds and death;
    Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
    Doth with their death bury their parents' strife.
    The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
    Turn thee Benvolio! look upon thy death.
    Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
    By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
    And the place death, considering who thou art,
    Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
    Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
    To catch my death with jauncing up and down!
    Then love-devouring death do what he dare-
    mouse, a cat, to scratch a man to death! a braggart, a rogue, a
    Stand not amaz'd. The Prince will doom thee death
    Cold death aside and with the other sends
    Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice.
    Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
    Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
    But with a rearward following Tybalt's death,
    In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
    And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
    Not body's death, but body's banishment.
  Rom. Ha, banishment? Be merciful, say 'death';
    Much more than death. Do not say 'banishment.'
    And world's exile is death. Then 'banishment'
    Is death misterm'd. Calling death 'banishment,'
    Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind Prince,
    And turn'd that black word death to banishment.
    And sayest thou yet that exile is not death?
    No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
  Nurse. Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
    The law, that threat'ned death, becomes thy friend
  Rom. Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death.
    Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
  Lady. Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
  Lady. Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death
    Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
  Par. Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
    A thing like death to chide away this shame,
    That cop'st with death himself to scape from it;
    Like death when he shuts up the day of life;
    Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death;
    And in this borrowed likeness of shrunk death
    The horrible conceit of death and night,
    Death lies on her like an untimely frost
  Cap. Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
    Hath Death lain with thy wife. See, there she lies,
    Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
    And leave him all. Life, living, all is Death's.
    And cruel Death hath catch'd it from my sight!
    Most detestable Death, by thee beguil'd,
    O love! O life! not life, but love in death
    Your part in her you could not keep from death,
    Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
    Is death to any he that utters them.
    Why I descend into this bed of death
  Rom. Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
    Can vengeance be pursu'd further than death?
    Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
    How oft when men are at the point of death
    A lightning before death. O, how may I
    Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
    And death's pale flag is not advanced there.
    That unsubstantial Death is amorous,
    A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
    And fearfully did menace me with death
    Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep.
  Wife. O me! this sight of death is as a bell
    And lead you even to death. Meantime forbear,
    Was Tybalt's doomsday, whose untimely death
    The form of death. Meantime I writ to Romeo
  Bal. I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
    And threat'ned me with death, going in the vault,
    Their course of love, the tidings of her death;
    Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
  BAPTISTA. After my death, the one half of my lands
    mistress are almost frozen to death.
  TRANIO. 'Tis death for any one in Mantua
    'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
    skirts of it and beat me to death with a bottom of brown bread; I
    dry death.                                            Exeunt
    And let Sebastian wake.' Say this were death
  TRINCULO. I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-
  CALIBAN. Lo, lo again! Bite him to death, I prithee.
    Ling'ring perdition, worse than any death
  CALIBAN. I shall be pinch'd to death.
  APEMANTUS. Right, if doing nothing be death by th' law.
  PAGE. Thou wast whelp'd a dog, and thou shalt famish dog's death.
    Buried his father, by whose death he's stepp'd
    And when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
    Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
    That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
    Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
    By decimation and a tithed death-
    I found a friend; and sure as death I swore
    Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
    And leave me to this miserable death.
  LAVINIA. 'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more,
    And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
    For, by my soul, were there worse end than death,
    Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death,
    And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
  LUCIUS. To rescue my two brothers from their death;
    This way to death my wretched sons are gone;
    Thy husband he is dead, and for his death
    To ransom my two nephews from their death;
    Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
    More than remembrance of my father's death.             Exit
    But sorrow flouted at is double death.
    That ever death should let life bear his name,
    A deed of death done on the innocent
  NURSE. The Emperor in his rage will doom her death.
    And this shall all be buried in my death,
    As kill a man, or else devise his death;
    So sweet a death as hanging presently.
    Confer with me of murder and of death;
    I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
    Two of her brothers were condemn'd to death,
    There's meed for meed, death for a deadly deed.
    To be adjudg'd some direful slaught'ring death,
    Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfam'd
    direction till thy death. Then if she that lays thee out says
    emulous factions and bleed to death upon. Now the dry serpigo on
    He is so plaguy proud that the death tokens of it
    Love's thrice-repured nectar? Death, I fear me;
    pretty encounters, press it to death. Away!
    As for her Greeks and Troyans suff'red death.
    I knew thou wouldst be his death! O, poor gentleman! A plague
    Troilus. 'Twill be his death; 'twill be his bane; he cannot bear
    If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
    For I will throw my glove to Death himself
    A great addition earned in thy death.
    To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
    Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death!
    If in his death the gods have us befriended;
    I do not speak of flight, of fear of death,
  SIR TOBY. What a plague means my niece to take the death of her
  OLIVIA. Good fool, for my brother's death.
  MALVOLIO. Yes, and shall do, till the pangs of death shake him.
            Come away, come away, death;
          My part of death no one so true
    boil'd to death with melancholy.
    death and sepulchre. Hob-nob is his word- give't or take't.
    I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
    Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
    Being destin'd to a drier death on shore.         Exit SPEED
  VALENTINE. And why not death rather than living torment?
    I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
    Tarry I here, I but attend on death;
    I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
  PROTEUS. What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
  VALENTINE. Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death;
    Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
    Death to thyself, but to thy lewd-tongu'd wife,
  ANTIGONUS. I swear to do this, though a present death
    Look for no less than death.
    And see what death is doing.
    My swift command, though I with death and with
    Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
    The causes of their death appear, unto
    Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
    Either for life or death, upon the earth
    a sickness denying thee anything; a death to grant this.
    death, death!
    Not yet on summer's death nor on the birth
    I will devise a death as cruel for thee
    death is too soft for him, say I. Draw our throne into a
    him, where he is to behold him with flies blown to death. But
    With divers deaths in death.
  THIRD GENTLEMAN. Wreck'd the same instant of their master's death,
    fish- was, when at the relation of the Queen's death, with the
    the death of Hermione, visited that removed house. Shall we
    Still sleep mock'd death. Behold; and say 'tis well.
    Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
