  Sweets with sweets war not, joy delights in joy:
    And all in war with Time for love of you,
  Make war upon this bloody tyrant Time?
  Such civil war is in my love and hate,
  Mine eye and heart are at a mortal war,
  When wasteful war shall statues overturn,
  Nor Mars his sword, nor war's quick fire shall burn:
    A braving war.
for the Florentine war; BERTRAM and PAROLLES; ATTENDANTS
  KING. Farewell, young lords; these war-like principles
    war, here on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
    Therefore, to th' war!
    Where noble fellows strike. War is no strife
    The fundamental reasons of this war;
    Of the non-sparing war? And is it I
    Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
    service; it was a disaster of war that Caesar himself could not
    theoric of war in the knot of his scarf, and the practice in the
  FIRST SOLDIER. What say you to his expertness in war?
    That o'er the files and musters of the war
    But soon that war had end, and the time's state
    Whose better issue in the war from Italy
    Thy soldier, servant, making peace or war
    Than could his war resisted.
    For such a petty war; his soldiership
    Was theme for you; you were the word of war.
  FIRST SERVANT. But it raises the greater war between him and his
    That magical word of war, we have effected;
    I'll raise the preparation of a war
    Hearing that you prepar'd for war, acquainted
    The kings o' th' earth for war. He hath assembled
    Manage this war.
    That speak against us! A charge we bear i' th' war,
    Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
    In the brave squares of war. Yet now- no matter.
    From that great face of war, whose several ranges
    Determine this great war in single fight!
    O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
          PROCULEIUS, and others, his Council of War
    Friend and companion in the front of war,
    How hardly I was drawn into this war,
  Herein you war against your reputation,
  making war against her heir.
    That like nor peace nor war? The one affrights you,
    he was to find fame. To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he
    Wears this war's garland; in token of the which,
    of the war; he hath in this action outdone his former deeds
    Commit the war of white and damask in
    Than camels in their war, who have their provand
    When by and by the din of war 'gan pierce
    They ne'er did service for't; being press'd to th' war
    Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' th' war,
    To speak of peace or war.
    I' th' war do grow together; grant that, and tell me
    With honour as in war; since that to both
    Some harlot's spirit! My throat of war be turn'd,
    And not our streets with war!
    From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war
  FIRST SERVANT. Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
    insensible; a getter of more bastard children than war's a
  SECOND SERVANT. 'Tis so; and as war in some sort may be said to be
    A worthy officer i' the war, but insolent,
    And with the deepest malice of the war
    As he controll'd the war; but one of these-
    The end of war's uncertain; but this certain,
    Counsel o' th' war; but at his nurse's tears
    That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
    Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
    Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war.
    The fear's as bad as falling; the toil o' th' war,
    His war for Britain.
    What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
    As war were hoodwink'd.
    But by example- O, a sin in war
    That draw his knives i' th' war. Well, I will find him;
  LUCIUS. Consider, sir, the chance of war. The day
    Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
    And foreign mart for implements of war;
    The soldiers' music and the rites of war
    No more shall trenching war channel her fields,
    The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
    But by the chance of war. To prove that true
    Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war,
    And to the fire-ey'd maid of smoky war
    When he was personal in the Irish war.
    This churlish knot of all-abhorred war,
    Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
    Is thought with child by the stern tyrant war,
    You cast th' event of war, my noble lord,
  LORD BARDOLPH. Yes, if this present quality of war-
    To look upon the hideous god of war
    Into the harsh and boist'rous tongue of war;
    To a loud trumpet and a point of war?
    But rather show awhile like fearful war
    Whereon this hydra son of war is born;
  DAVY. Doth the man of war stay all night, sir?
    That war, or peace, or both at once, may be
   List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
    How you awake our sleeping sword of war-
    We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
    Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance;
    To line and new repair our towns of war
    Though war nor no known quarrel were in question,
    As were a war in expectation.
    On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
    But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
    Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof-
    And teach them how to war. And you, good yeomen,
    disciplines of the war; the concavities of it is not sufficient.
    concerning the disciplines of the war, the Roman wars, in the way
    war and in the derivation of my birth, and in other
    the disciplines of war; and there is an end.          Exeunt
    What is it then to me if impious war,
    phrase of war, which they trick up with new-tuned oaths; and what
    Investing lank-lean cheeks and war-worn coats
    have no wings to fly from God: war is His beadle, war is His
    that war hath never ent'red.
    In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
    Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
    One that still motions war and never peace,
    And prosperous be thy life in peace and war!          [Dies]
  PLANTAGENET. And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul!
    Your faithful service, and your toil in war;
    Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee.
    Drops bloody sweat from his war-wearied limbs
    To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
    Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
    To ease your country of distressful war,
    Your deeds of war, and all our counsel die?
    Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,
    Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war
  YORK. Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still.
    Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
    He that is truly dedicate to war
    Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
    No; first shall war unpeople this my realm;
  CLIFFORD. In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
    To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
  YORK. I shall be, if I claim by open war.
    It is war's prize to take all vantages;
    With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
    Were he as famous and as bold in war
    Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
  KING HENRY. This battle fares like to the morning's war,
    So is the equal poise of this fell war.
    Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
    And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
    And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
    And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
    I long till Edward fall by war's mischance
    But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
    Go levy men and make prepare for war;
    As likely to be blest in peace and war;
    But in the night or in the time of war.
    Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
    To bend the fatal instruments of war
    By all the laws of war y'are privileg'd.
    In the old time of war, would shake the press,
  CHATILLON. The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
  KING JOHN. Here have we war for war, and blood for blood,
    Shadowing their right under your wings of war.
    In such a just and charitable war.
    That right in peace which here we urge in war,
  KING PHILIP. Peace be to England, if that war return
    Can hide you from our messengers of war,
    Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
    From a resolv'd and honourable war,
    The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
  CONSTANCE. War! war! no peace! Peace is to me a war.
    And like. a civil war set'st oath to oath.
    Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
    My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
    Away, and glister like the god of war
    And tame the savage spirit of wild war,
    Sweat in this business and maintain this war?
    Before I drew this gallant head of war,
    To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
    Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war,
    With purpose presently to leave this war.
    Than that poor Brutus with himself at war
    In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
    Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
    Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war,
     With th' ancient of war on our proceeding.
     I hold you but a subject of this war,
    That war against your own affections
    This civil war of wits were much better used
  ARMADO. The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks, beat
    War with mankind.
    Prepares for some attempt of war.
    Towards which advance the war.
    The noble Thanes do bravely in the war,
  MRS. OVERDONE. Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
    At war 'twixt will and will not.
    war-like, courtlike, and learned preparations.
    War, death, or sickness, did lay siege to it,
    Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
    war betwixt Signior Benedick and her. They never meet but there's
    But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
    Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war,
  IAGO. Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
    Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
    A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
    Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
    Pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!
    'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
    Thus plated in habiliments of war;
  KING RICHARD. We will ourself in person to this war;
    Against infection and the hand of war,
    In war was never lion rag'd more fierce,
    With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
  QUEEN. With signs of war about his aged neck.
    Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
    Frighting her pale-fac'd villages with war
    The other to enjoy by rage and war.
    Would they make peace? Terrible hell make war
    How some have been depos'd, some slain in war,
    The purple testament of bleeding war;
    And, toil'd with works of war, retir'd himself
    Grim-visag'd war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front,
    Though not by war, by surfeit die your king,
    That you will war with God by murd'ring me?
    Make war upon themselves-brother to brother,
    Your discipline in war, wisdom in peace,
    Or with the clamorous report of war
    Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror;
    still-lasting war.
    By this one bloody trial of sharp war.
    Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
    Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
    And time it is when raging war is done
    To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
    Set roaring war. To the dread rattling thunder
  ALCIBIADES. Hard fate! He might have died in war.
    Why, let the war receive't in valiant gore;
    For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
    Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
  TIMON. War'st thou 'gainst Athens?
    And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
    Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
    The common stroke of war.
    Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
    Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
    Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
    And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd.
    Join with the Goths, and with revengeful war
    This 'To Apollo'; this 'To the God of War'-
    Of cruel war. Sixty and nine that wore
    Their war-like fraughtage. Now on Dardan plains
    Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
    Why should I war without the walls of Troy
    And, like as there were husbandry in war,
    Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war
    Count wisdom as no member of the war,
    They call this bed-work, mapp'ry, closet-war;
    In hot digestion of this cormorant war-
    that war for a placket. I have said my prayers; and devil Envy
    the subject, and war and lechery confound all!               Exit
    Bring action hither; this cannot go to war.
    To call together all his state of war;
  CRESSIDA. In that I'll war with you.
    They think my little stomach to the war
    And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
  VIOLA. It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of war, no
    As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war.
    War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
  PROTEUS. Ill, when you talk of war.
