  Of his self-love to stop posterity?
    No love toward others in that bosom sits
  For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any
  Shall hate be fairer lodged than gentle love?
    Make thee another self for love of me,
  O that you were your self, but love you are
    O none but unthrifts, dear my love you know,
    And all in war with Time for love of you,
  O carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
    My love shall in my verse ever live young.
    Mine be thy love and thy love's use their treasure.
  O let me true in love but truly write,
  And then believe me, my love is as fair,
  O therefore love be of thyself so wary,
  The perfect ceremony of love's rite,
  And in mine own love's strength seem to decay,
  O'ercharged with burthen of mine own love's might:
  Who plead for love, and look for recompense,
    O learn to read what silent love hath writ,
    To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.
    Then happy I that love and am beloved
  Lord of my love, to whom in vassalage
    Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee,
    For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings,
  And weep afresh love's long since cancelled woe,
  And there reigns love and all love's loving parts,
  Hath dear religious love stol'n from mine eye,
  Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
  Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
  A dearer birth than this his love had brought
    Theirs for their style I'll read, his for his love'.
    Yet him for this, my love no whit disdaineth,
    Ah but those tears are pearl which thy love sheds,
  Such civil war is in my love and hate,
  Which though it alter not love's sole effect,
  Yet doth it steal sweet hours from love's delight.
    But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
  I make my love engrafted to this store:
  And our dear love lose name of single one,
  To entertain the time with thoughts of love,
  Take all my loves, my love, yea take them all,
  No love, my love, that thou mayst true love call,
  Then if for my love, thou my love receivest,
  I cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest,
  And yet love knows it is a greater grief
  A loss in love that touches me more nearly.
  Thou dost love her, because thou know'st I love her,
  If I lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
  In tender embassy of love to thee,
    And my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.
  Or heart in love with sighs himself doth smother;
  With my love's picture then my eye doth feast,
  And in his thoughts of love doth share a part.
  So either by thy picture or my love,
  When as thy love hath cast his utmost sum,
  When love converted from the thing it was
    Since why to love, I can allege no cause.
  Thus can my love excuse the slow offence,
  Therefore desire (of perfect'st love being made)
  But love, for love, thus shall excuse my jade,
  Sweet love renew thy force, be it not said
  So love be thou, although to-day thou fill
  The spirit of love, with a perpetual dulness:
  Return of love, more blest may be the view.
    So true a fool is love, that in your will,
  O no, thy love though much, is not so great,
  It is my love that keeps mine eye awake,
  Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,
  Sin of self-love possesseth all mine eye,
  Mine own self-love quite contrary I read:
  Against my love shall be as I am now
  My sweet love's beauty, though my lover's life.
  That Time will come and take my love away.
    That in black ink my love may still shine bright.
    Save that to die, I leave my love alone.
  For canker vice the sweetest buds doth love,
  The hand that writ it, for I love you so,
  But let your love even with my life decay.
  What merit lived in me that you should love
  After my death (dear love) forget me quite,
  O lest your true love may seem false in this,
  That you for love speak well of me untrue,
    And so should you, to love things nothing worth.
    This thou perceiv'st, which makes thy love more strong,
    To love that well, which thou must leave ere long.
  O know sweet love I always write of you,
  And you and love are still my argument:
    So is my love still telling what is told.
  I grant (sweet love) thy lovely argument
    The worst was this, my love was my decay.
  And do so love, yet when they have devised,
  But that is in my thought, whose love to you
    Such is my love, to thee I so belong,
  Thou canst not (love) disgrace me half so ill,
    For I must ne'er love him whom thou dost hate.
  Thy love is better than high birth to me,
  And life no longer than thy love will stay,
  For it depends upon that love of thine.
  Happy to have thy love, happy to die!
  Like a deceived husband, so love's face,
  May still seem love to me, though altered new:
  That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell,
    But do not so, I love thee in such sort,
  If not from my love's breath? The purple pride
  In my love's veins thou hast too grossly dyed.
  Rise resty Muse, my love's sweet face survey,
    Give my love fame faster than Time wastes life,
  Both truth and beauty on my love depends:
  My love is strengthened though more weak in seeming,
  I love not less, though less the show appear,
  That love is merchandized, whose rich esteeming,
  Our love was new, and then but in the spring,
  Let not my love be called idolatry,
  Kind is my love to-day, to-morrow kind,
  Can yet the lease of my true love control,
  My love looks fresh, and death to me subscribes,
  That may express my love, or thy dear merit?
  So that eternal love in love's fresh case,
    Finding the first conceit of love there bred,
  That is my home of love, if I have ranged,
  And worse essays proved thee my best of love.
  A god in love, to whom I am confined.
  Your love and pity doth th' impression fill,
  And that your love taught it this alchemy?
  Even those that said I could not love you dearer,
  Might I not then say 'Now I love you best,'
    Love is a babe, then might I not say so
  Admit impediments, love is not love
  Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
  Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
  Forgot upon your dearest love to call,
    The constancy and virtue of your love.
  Thus policy in love t' anticipate
  And ruined love when it is built anew
  Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score,
  If my dear love were but the child of state,
  As subject to time's love or to time's hate,
  I love to hear her speak, yet well I know,
    And yet by heaven I think my love as rare,
  Thy face hath not the power to make love groan;
  Thine eyes I love, and they as pitying me,
  Thus far for love, my love-suit sweet fulfil.
  'Will', will fulfil the treasure of thy love,
    Make but my name thy love, and love that still,
  Thou blind fool Love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
  When my love swears that she is made of truth,
  O love's best habit is in seeming trust,
  And age in love, loves not to have years told.
  Let me excuse thee, ah my love well knows,
  Though not to love, yet love to tell me so,
  In faith I do not love thee with mine eyes,
  Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
  And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
  Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov'st those,
  Those lips that Love's own hand did make,
  My love is as a fever longing still,
  My reason the physician to my love,
  O me! what eyes hath love put in my head,
  If it be not, then love doth well denote,
  Love's eye is not so true as all men's: no,
  How can it? O how can love's eye be true,
    O cunning love, with tears thou keep'st me blind,
  Canst thou O cruel, say I love thee not,
    But love hate on for now I know thy mind,
  Who taught thee how to make me love thee more,
  O though I love what others do abhor,
    If thy unworthiness raised love in me,
  Love is too young to know what conscience is,
  Yet who knows not conscience is born of love?
  Triumph in love, flesh stays no farther reason,
    Her love, for whose dear love I rise and fall.
  But thou art twice forsworn to me love swearing,
  In vowing new hate after new love bearing:
  Oaths of thy love, thy truth, thy constancy,
  And his love-kindling fire did quickly steep
  Which borrowed from this holy fire of Love,
  But at my mistress' eye Love's brand new-fired,
  The little Love-god lying once asleep,
  Which from Love's fire took heat perpetual,
    Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.
    Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
    That shall attend his love.
    That I should love a bright particular star
    Th' ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
    Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though a plague,
    [Aside]  One that goes with him. I love him for his sake;
    idle, made of self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
    What power is it which mounts my love so high,
    To show her merit that did miss her love?
  FIRST LORD. His love and wisdom,
  STEWARD. I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
    much love as she finds. There is more owing her than is paid; and
    difference betwixt their two estates; Love no god, that would not
    Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth.
    You love my son; invention is asham'd,
  COUNTESS. Do you love my son?
  COUNTESS. Love you my son?
  HELENA. Do not you love him, madam?
  COUNTESS. Go not about; my love hath in't a bond
    I love your son.
    My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love.
    I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
    I still pour in the waters of my love,
    Let not your hate encounter with my love,
    Wish chastely and love dearly that your Dian
    Was both herself and Love; O, then, give pity
  COUNTESS. Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
    And write to her a love-line.
    Fall, when love please. Marry, to each but one!
    Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
    And to imperial Love, that god most high,
    Love make your fortunes twenty times above
    Her that so wishes, and her humble love!
    Which great Love grant; and so I take my leave.
  BERTRAM. I cannot love her, nor will strive to do 't.
    My love and her desert; that canst not dream
    Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
    The great prerogative and rite of love,
    and I begin to love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
    Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
    A lover of thy drum, hater of love.                   Exeunt
    Ambitious love hath so in me offended
    Led hither by pure love. Which of them both
  FIRST LORD. O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum; he
  SECOND LORD. O, for the love of laughter, hinder not the honour of
  PAROLLES. I love not many words.                          Exit
    In your fine frame hath love no quality?
    I was compell'd to her; but I love the
    By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
    When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
    To swear by him whom I protest to love
    Be not so holy-cruel. Love is holy;
    My love as it begins shall so persever.
  SECOND LORD. I begin to love him for this.
    To recompense your love. Doubt not but heaven
    mother. I could not have owed her a more rooted love.
    That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
    From the great compt; but love that comes too late,
    Our own love waking cries to see what's done,
  KING. Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
  KING. Come, come, to th' purpose. Did he love this woman?
  PAROLLES. Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
  PAROLLES. He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
    I'll love her dearly, ever, ever dearly.
  CLEOPATRA. If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
  ANTONY. There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
  ANTONY. How, my love?
    Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
    Now for the love of Love and her soft hours,
  CHARMIAN. O, excellent! I love long life better than figs.
    finest part of pure love. We cannot call her winds and waters
    Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
  CHARMIAN. Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
    Are newly grown to love. The condemn'd Pompey,
  CLEOPATRA. O most false love!
    And give true evidence to his love, which stands
    And the ebb'd man, ne'er lov'd till ne'er worth love,
    Ever love Caesar so?
    The people love me, and the sea is mine;
    Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
  ENOBARBUS. Or, if you borrow one another's love for the instant,
    Where now half tales be truths. Her love to both
    Did ever love so dearly. Let her live
    The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,
    Of us that trade in love.
    than the love of the parties.
    His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
    Betwixt us as the cement of our love
  ANTONY. The April's in her eyes. It is love's spring,
    I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love.
    Let your best love draw to that point which seeks
    Can never be so equal that your love
    The ostentation of our love, which left unshown
    Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort,
    Each heart in Rome does love and pity you;
    Love, I am full of lead. Some wine,
    As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
    I'll make death love me; for I will contend
    More tight at this than thou. Dispatch. O love,
    To business that we love we rise betime,
  CLEOPATRA. Why is my lord enrag'd against his love?
    Than love that's hir'd! What, goest thou back? Thou shalt
    Which my love makes religion to obey,
  WILLIAM, a country fellow, in love with Audrey
    Your brother is but young and tender; and, for your love, I would
    in; therefore, out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint
  OLIVER. Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which thou shalt
    love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father, had banished thy
    could have taught my love to take thy father for mine; so wouldst
    thou, if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously temper'd
    Let me see; what think you of falling in love?
  CELIA. Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal; but love no man
  CELIA. My father's love is enough to honour him. Enough, speak no
    If you do keep your promises in love
    High commendation, true applause, and love,
    I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
  CELIA. Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son dearly?
  ROSALIND. Let me love him for that; and do you love him because I
  CELIA. No, hath not? Rosalind lacks, then, the love
    I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
    Why are you virtuous? Why do people love you?
  SILVIUS. O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
    But if thy love were ever like to mine,
    As sure I think did never man love so,
  SILVIUS. O, thou didst then never love so heartily!
    That ever love did make thee run into,
  TOUCHSTONE. And I mine. I remember, when I was in love, I broke my
    but as all is mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal
  ROSALIND. I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
    Limp'd in pure love; till he be first suffic'd,
  ORLANDO. Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love;
                Must find love's prick and Rosalinde.
  ROSALIND. O most gentle pulpiter! What tedious homily of love have
  JAQUES. I pray you mar no more trees with writing love songs in
  JAQUES. Rosalind is your love's name?
  JAQUES. The worst fault you have is to be in love.
  JAQUES. I'll tarry no longer with you; farewell, good Signior Love.
    man; one that knew courtship too well, for there he fell in love.
    him some good counsel, for he seems to have the quotidian of love
  ORLANDO. I am he that is so love-shak'd; I pray you tell me your
    how to know a man in love; in which cage of rushes I am sure you
  ORLANDO. Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
  ROSALIND. Me believe it! You may as soon make her that you love
  ROSALIND. But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
  ROSALIND. Love is merely a madness; and, I tell you, deserves as
    ordinary that the whippers are in love too. Yet I profess curing
    love, his mistress; and I set him every day to woo me; at which
    mad humour of love to a living humour of madness; which was, to
    that there shall not be one spot of love in 't.
  ORLANDO. Now, by the faith of my love, I will. Tell me where it is.
    for his verity in love, I do think him as concave as covered
  ROSALIND. Not true in love?
    After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
    Between the pale complexion of true love
    The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
    Say that you love me not; but say not so
    That love's keen arrows make.
    And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love;
    Cry the man mercy, love him, take his offer;
  ROSALIND. He's fall'n in love with your foulness, and she'll fall
    in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as she answers thee
  ROSALIND. I pray you do not fall in love with me,
    If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
    By giving love, your sorrow and my grief
  PHEBE. Thou hast my love; is not that neighbourly?
    And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
    But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
  SILVIUS. So holy and so perfect is my love,
  PHEBE. Think not I love him, though I ask for him;
    To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
    I love him not, nor hate him not; and yet
    I have more cause to hate him than to love him;
  JAQUES. I am so; I do love it better than laughing.
    out of love with your nativity, and almost chide God for making
  ROSALIND. Break an hour's promise in love! He that will divide a
    thousand part of a minute in the affairs of love, it may be said
    died in his own person, videlicet, in a love-cause. Troilus had
    could to die before, and he is one of the patterns of love.
    eaten them, but not for love.
  ORLANDO. Then love me, Rosalind.
  ROSALIND. Alas, dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours!
  CELIA. You have simply misus'd our sex in your love-prate. We must
    know how many fathom deep I am in love! But it cannot be sounded;
    out- let him be judge how deep I am in love. I'll tell thee,
  CELIA. I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he hath
    She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
    Her love is not the hare that I do hunt;
    And turn'd into the extremity of love.
            Have power to raise such love in mine,
            Whiles you chid me, I did love;
            He that brings this love to the
            Little knows this love in me;
            Or else by him my love deny,
  ROSALIND. Do you pity him? No, he deserves no pity. Wilt thou love
    for I see love hath made thee tame snake, and say this to her-
    that if she love me, I charge her to love thee; if she will not,
    Committing me unto my brother's love;
    love this maid?
    like her? that but seeing you should love her? and loving woo?
    consenting; but say with me, I love Aliena; say with her that she
    love, and they will together. Clubs cannot part them.
    If you do love Rosalind so near the heart as your gesture cries
    Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
  PHEBE. Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.
  PHEBE. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
  SILVIUS. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
  ORLANDO. If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
  ROSALIND. Why do you speak too, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
    [To PHEBE] I would love you if I could.- To-morrow meet me all
    you shall be married to-morrow. [To ORLANDO] As you love
    Rosalind, meet. [To SILVIUS] As you love Phebe, meet;- and as I
    love no woman, I'll meet. So, fare you well; I have left you
        Sweet lovers love the spring.
        For love is crowned with the prime,
    Why then, my love adieu!
            You to his love must accord,
    [To ORLANDO] You to a love that your true faith doth merit;
    [To OLIVER] You to your land, and love, and great allies
    you, O women, for the love you bear to men, to like as much of
    this play as please you; and I charge you, O men, for the love
  Whom whilst I laboured of a love to see,
LUCIANA. Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey.
  Would that alone a love he would detain,
  As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
  Your sauciness will jest upon my love,
  For know, my love, as easy mayst thou fall
  Even in the spring of love, thy love-springs rot?
  Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
  Muffle your false love with some show of blindness;
  Being compact of credit, that you love us;
  Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.
LUCIANA. Why call you me love? Call my sister so.
  Thee will I love, and with thee lead my life;
  Belike you thought our love would last too long,
LUCIANA. That love I begg'd for you he begg'd of me.
ADRIANA. With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
  Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
  Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
    wars eat us not up, they will; and there's all the love they bear
    embracements of his bed where he would show most love. When yet
    sons, each in my love alike, and none less dear than thine and my
  VIRGILIA. 'Tis not to save labour, nor that I want love.
    Fall deep in love with thee, and her great charms
    As it were sin to doubt- that love this painting
  MENENIUS. Not according to the prayer of the people, for they love
  MENENIUS. Pray you, who does the wolf love?
    love of Juno, let's go.
    love they know not why, they hate upon no better a ground.
    Therefore, for Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or
  FIRST OFFICER. If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
    flatter them for their love.
    I love them as they weigh-
    not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my sworn
    Translate his malice towards you into love,
    That love the fundamental part of state
  BRUTUS. Merely awry. When he did love his country,
    Supplied with worthy men! plant love among's!
    Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
    Requite your love!
    Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love,
    My birthplace hate I, and my love's upon
    As hotly and as nobly with thy love
    The senators and patricians love him too.
  BRUTUS. Only make trial what your love can do
    particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than thy old father
    Was to send him; for whose old love I have-
    No more infected with my country's love
    Such parting were too petty. Look here, love:
    It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
  CLOTEN. And that she should love this fellow, and refuse me!
    Which you know cannot err. The love I bear him
  CLOTEN. Still I swear I love you.
    I barely gratify your love; they failing,
    Where there is beauty; truth where semblance; love
    Upon the love, and truth, and vows, which I
    Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
    For it doth physic love- of his content,
    am in Cambria, at Milford Haven. What your own love will out of
    remains loyal to his vow, and your increasing in love
    Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing
    The innocent mansion of my love, my heart.
    That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me
    Or, wing'd with fervour of her love, she's flown
  CLOTEN. I love and hate her; for she's fair and royal,
    Outsells them all. I love her therefore; but
    He is a man. I'll love him as my brother;
  GUIDERIUS. I love thee; I have spoke it.
    As I do love my father.
    I love this youth, and I have heard you say
    Love's reason's without reason. The bier at door,
    I love thee brotherly, but envy much
    These present wars shall find I love my country,
    You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,
    Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
  CORNELIUS. Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
    I love thee more and more; think more and more
    Most like a noble lord in love and one
  BELARIUS. [To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS] Though you did love this
    And with no less nobility of love
  Ham. For God's love let me hear!
  Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
    As meditation or the thoughts of love,
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
    With all my love I do commend me to you;
    May do t' express his love and friending to you,
  Pol. Mad for thy love?
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
            But never doubt I love.
    reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
    Receiv'd his love?
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
    Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
    for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
    obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
  Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
    love passing well.
    If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
    The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
    but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
  King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
    Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
    his love.
  Ham. As woman's love.
      Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
      Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
      For women's fear and love holds quantity,
      Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
      And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
      Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
      Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
    King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
      Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
      Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
      Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
      And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
  Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
    shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
  Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
  Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
    You cannot call it love; for at your age
    Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
    Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
    This mad young man. But so much was our love
    And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
         How should I your true-love know
           With true-love showers.
    Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
  Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
    Is the great love the general gender bear him,
    I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
  King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
    But that I know love is begun by time,
    There lives within the very flame of love
       In youth when I did love, did love,
    Could not (with all their quantity of love)
  Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
    As love between them like the palm might flourish,
  Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
    I do receive your offer'd love like love,
    Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
    To make us strangers to his looks of love.
    medicines to make me love him, I'll be hang'd. It could not be
    be there, in respect of the love I bear your house.' He could be
    contented- why is he not then? In respect of the love he bears
  Hot. Why, my horse, my love- my horse!
  Hot. So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
    Away, you trifler! Love? I love thee not;
  Lady. Do you not love me? do you not indeed?
    Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
    I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
    I love thee infinitely. But hark you. Kate:
    thy father. If thou love me, practise an answer.
    But I will never be a truant, love,
    I love him well; he is an honest man.
  Fal. A thousand pound, Hal? A million! Thy love is worth a million;
    thou owest me thy love.
  Fal. Hostess, I forgive thee. Go make ready breakfast. Love thy
    In my heart's love hath no man than yourself.
    Some of us love you well; and even those some
  Blunt. I would you would accept of grace and love.
    That even our love thirst not come near your sight
    We love our people well; even those we love
    If I were much in love with vanity!
    Pardon, and terms of love to all of you?
    Their over-greedy love hath surfeited.
    indeed these humble considerations make me out of love with my
    nor no cheater; but I do not love swaggering, by my troth. I am
    chops. Ah, rogue! i' faith, I love thee. Thou art as valorous as
  DOLL. Why does the Prince love him so, then?
  DOLL. I love thee better than I love e'er a scurvy young boy of
    in love with thee; in which doing, I have done the part of a
    And laid his love and life under my foot;
    Cried hate upon him; and all their prayers and love
    And it proceeds from policy, not love.
    That, were our royal faiths martyrs in love,
    Of our restored love and amity.
    You would drink freely; but my love to ye
    love me; nor a man cannot make him laugh- but that's no marvel;
    Therefore omit him not; blunt not his love,
  CLARENCE. I shall observe him with all care and love.
    Which nature, love, and filial tenderness,
    That thou mightst win the more thy father's love,
    Let me but bear your love, I'll bear your cares.
    You are, I think, assur'd I love you not.
  KING HENRY. Alas, your too much love and care of me
    You know how apt our love was to accord
  PISTOL. Come, let's away. My love, give me thy lips.
    Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
    man that I love and honour with my soul, and my heart, and my
    The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
  FLUELLEN. Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at his
  KING HENRY. 'Tis good for men to love their present pains
    I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
  KING HENRY. I dare say you love him not so ill to wish him here
    A testament of noble-ending love.
    encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
    this leek; because, look you, you do not love it, nor your
    Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
  BURGUNDY. My duty to you both, on equal love,
    And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
  KING HENRY. O fair Katherine, if you will love me soundly with your
    farm to buy my crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
    directly to say 'I love you.' Then, if you urge me farther than
    should quickly leap into wife. Or if I might buffet for my love,
    till urg'd, nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
    that never looks in his glass for love of anything he sees there,
    canst love me for this, take me; if not, to say to thee that I
    shall die is true- but for thy love, by the Lord, no; yet I love
    to my love? Speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
  KATHERINE. Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
  KING HENRY. No, it is not possible you should love the enemy of
    France, Kate, but in loving me you should love the friend of
    France; for I love France so well that I will not part with a
    English- Canst thou love me?
    love with your heart. But, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
    rather, gentle Princess, because I love thee cruelly. If ever
    English, I love thee, Kate; by which honour I dare not swear thou
    love her; and that is good English.
    flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up the spirit of love in
    conjure up love in her in his true likeness, he must appear naked
  KING HENRY. Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and
  BURGUNDY. As love is, my lord, before it loves.
  KING HENRY. It is so; and you may, some of you, thank love for my
  KING HENRY. I pray you, then, in love and dear alliance,
    As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
  PUCELLE. I must not yield to any rites of love,
  WARWICK. I love no colours; and, without all colour
    Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
    To join your hearts in love and amity.
    And if you love me, as you say you do,
    Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
    The presence of a king engenders love
    Burns under feigned ashes of forg'd love
    Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
    Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both.
    So let us still continue peace and love.
    If you forsake the offer of their love.
    I owe him little duty and less love,
    And shall I fly? O, if you love my mother,
    Before thou make a trial of her love?
  SUFFOLK. His love.
    Never yet taint with love, I send the King.
    It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
    Do breed love's settled passions in my heart;
    Where I may have fruition of her love.
    To love and honour Henry as her lord.
    To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
    As is fair Margaret he be link'd in love.
    With any passion of inflaming love,
    With hope to find the like event in love
    I can express no kinder sign of love
    If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
    Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
    And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
    Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love
  GLOUCESTER. O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,
  QUEEN. And as for you, that love to be protected
    Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
    As I in duty love my king and country!
    To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk;
    And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
  CADE. And you that love the commons follow me.
    I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
  QUEEN. No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
    And show'd how well you love your Prince and country.
    As pledges of my fealty and love.
  YORK. With thy brave bearing should I be in love
    Hath no self-love; nor he that loves himself
  KING HENRY. Poor queen! How love to me and to her son
    Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
    You love the breeder better than the male.
    'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
    Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
    My love and fear glu'd many friends to thee;
  RICHARD. Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
  KING HENRY. From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
  KING EDWARD. Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
  LADY GREY. Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
  KING EDWARD. An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
  KING EDWARD. But stay thee- 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
  LADY GREY. The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
    What love, thinkst thou, I sue so much to get?
  LADY GREY. My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
    That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
  KING EDWARD. No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
    And she shall be my love, or else my queen.
    And that is to enjoy thee for my love.
    Why, love forswore me in my mother's womb;
    That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
    I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
    Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
    Tell me for truth the measure of his love
    That this his love was an eternal plant
    Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
    This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
  QUEEN MARGARET. Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
  KING EDWARD. My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns.
    Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
    You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
    Stay not for the love of Edward but the crown.
    Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
    Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
    For love of Edward's offspring in my womb.
    Then why should they love Edward more than me?
    More than the nature of a brother's love.
    I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
    And this word 'love,' which greybeards call divine,
  KING EDWARD. Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
  GLOUCESTER. And that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
    That you would love yourself, and in that love
    To gain the love o' th' commonalty; the Duke
  SANDYS. O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too.
    If I but knew him, with my love and duty
    They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,
    That angels love good men with; even of her
    I love him not, nor fear him-there's my creed;
    Have I not strove to love, although I knew
    My bond to wedlock or my love and duty,
  WOLSEY. Madam, you wrong the King's love with these fears;
    His love too long ago! I am old, my lords,
    So much they love it; but to stubborn spirits
    My heart dropp'd love, my pow'r rain'd honour, more
    As 'twere in love's particular, be more
    And an that love his follies.
    Love thyself last; cherish those hearts that hate thee;
    To love her for her mother's sake, that lov'd him,
    By that you love the dearest in this world,
  LOVELL. My lord, I love you;
    'Tis my undoing. Love and meekness, lord,
    Am for his love and service so to him.
    Embrace and love this man.
    And brother-love I do it.
    And so stand fix'd. Peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
    With very easy arguments of love,
    Subjected tribute to commanding love,
    Embrace him, love him, give him welcome hither.
    But with a heart full of unstained love;
    As seal to this indenture of my love:
    To make a more requital to your love!
    England we love, and for that England's sake
    And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
    If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
    If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
    If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
    Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
    Himself love's traitor. This is pity now,
    In such a love so vile a lout as he.
    I will enforce it eas'ly to my love.
    That all I see in you is worthy love,
  KING JOHN. Speak then, Prince Dauphin; can you love this lady?
  LEWIS. Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;
    For I do love her most unfeignedly.
    For then I should not love thee; no, nor thou
    Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love,
    So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
    Save what is opposite to England's love.
  BLANCH. Now shall I see thy love. What motive may
    And with advantage means to pay thy love;
    But, ah, I will not! Yet I love thee well;
    I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee.
    And buss thee as thy wife. Misery's love,
  KING PHILIP. Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
    I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
    I warrant I love you more than you do me.
    Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
    Nay, you may think my love was crafty love,
    Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
    Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
    Dear amity and everlasting love.
    The love of him-and this respect besides,
    But I do love the favour and the form
  SALISBURY. And the like tender of our love we make,
    And show of love as I was wont to have;
    Forgets the shows of love to other men.
    To stale with ordinary oaths my love
  BRUTUS. I would not, Cassius, yet I love him well.
    For let the gods so speed me as I love
  BRUTUS. That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
    I would not, so with love I might entreat you,
    For in the ingrated love he bears to Caesar-
    If he love Caesar, all that he can do
    By all your vows of love and that great vow
    Because I love you, I will let you know.
    Pardon me, Caesar, for my dear dear love
    And reason to my love is liable.
    Say I love Brutus and I honor him;
    Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
    With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
    Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
    Though last, not least in love, yours, good Trebonius.
    That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true!
    Friends am I with you all and love you all,
    him I say that Brutus' love to Caesar was no less than his. If
    is tears for his love, joy for his fortune, honor for his valor,
    offended. Who is here so vile that will not love his country? If
    You all did love him once, not without cause;
    That love my friend, and that they know full well
    When love begins to sicken and decay
    Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
  CASSIUS. Do not presume too much upon my love;
  CASSIUS. You love me not.
  CASSIUS. Have not you love enough to bear with me
    Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
  I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.               Drinks.
  OCTAVIUS. Not that we love words better, as you do.
    Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
  Kent. I must love you, and sue to know you better.
     Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
     Which of you shall we say doth love us most?
  Gon. Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
     A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable.
     Beyond all manner of so much I love you.
  Cor. [aside] What shall Cordelia speak? Love, and be silent.
     I find she names my very deed of love;
     In your dear Highness' love.
     And yet not so; since I am sure my love's
     Although the last, not least; to whose young love
     My heart into my mouth. I love your Majesty
     Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
     They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
     Half my love with him, half my care and duty.
     To love my father all.
     Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least,
     That good effects may spring from words of love.
     Or cease your quest of love?
     I would not from your love make such a stray
     What say you to the lady? Love's not love
     Since that respects of fortune are his love,
     My love should kindle to inflam'd respect.
     Without our grace, our love, our benison.
     Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
     nature finds itself scourg'd by the sequent effects. Love cools,
     that will put me in trust, to love him that is honest, to
  Kent. Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor so old to
  Lear. I thank thee, fellow. Thou serv'st me, and I'll love thee.
     Whoop, Jug, I love thee!
     From the fix'd place; drew from my heart all love
     To the great love I bear you -
  Kent. I love thee not.
     If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
     And thou art twice her love.
  Kent. Alas, sir, are you here? Things that love night
     Love not such nights as these. The wrathful skies
     father in my love.
     health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
     I' th' way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
     To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the King,
     But love, dear love, and our ag'd father's right.
     Something- I know not what- I'll love thee much-
  Reg. I know your lady does not love her husband;
     No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not love. Read thou this
     I know you do not love me; for your sisters
     Do you not love my sister?
  Edm. In honour'd love.
     And machination ceases. Fortune love you!
  Edm. To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
     To such as love not sorrow; but another,
LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST
    To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die,
    But I protest I love to hear him lie,
  ARMADO. I love not to be cross'd.
  MOTH. [Aside] He speaks the mere contrary: crosses love not him.
  ARMADO. I will hereupon confess I am in love. And as it is base for
    a soldier to love, so am I in love with a base wench. If drawing
    me, boy; what great men have been in love?
    porter; and he was in love.
    love too. Who was Samson's love, my dear Moth?
  ARMADO. Green, indeed, is the colour of lovers; but to have a love
  ARMADO. My love is most immaculate white and red.
    example my digression by some mighty precedent. Boy, I do love
  MOTH. [Aside] To be whipt; and yet a better love than my master.
  ARMADO. Sing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.
  ARMADO. I love thee.
    love. And how can that be true love which is falsely attempted?
    Love is a familiar; Love is a devil. There is no evil angel but
    Love. Yet was Samson so tempted, and he had an excellent
    for your manager is in love; yea, he loveth. Assist me, some
    Of all that virtue love for virtue loved;
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. God bless my ladies! Are they all in love,
  MARIA. Thou art an old love-monger, and speakest skilfully.
    employ him in a letter to my love.
  MOTH. Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
    throat, as if you swallowed love with singing love, sometime
    through the nose, as if you snuff'd up love by smelling love,
  ARMADO. Call'st thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
  MOTH. No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your love
    perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
    instant. By heart you love her, because your heart cannot come by
    her; in heart you love her, because your heart is in love with
    her; and out of heart you love her, being out of heart that you
  BEROWNE. And I, forsooth, in love; I, that have been love's whip;
    Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
    What! I love, I sue, I seek a wife-
    And, among three, to love the worst of all,
    Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue, and groan:
    Some men must love my lady, and some Joan.              Exit
    lowliness. Shall I command thy love? I may. Shall I enforce thy
    love? I could. Shall I entreat thy love? I will. What shalt thou
    Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
  NATHANIEL. [Reads] 'If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to
      love?
    Celestial as thou art, O, pardon love this wrong,
    proved, wit. By the Lord, this love is as mad as Ajax: it kills
    will not love; if I do, hang me. I' faith, I will not. O, but her
    eye! By this light, but for her eye, I would not love her- yes,
    lie in my throat. By heaven, I do love; and it hath taught me to
      But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep
  KING. In love, I hope; sweet fellowship in shame!
    The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
    O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
      My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
  BEROWNE. Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
        Love, whose month is ever May,
        Turning mortal for thy love."'
    That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
  LONGAVILLE. [Advancing] Dumain, thy love is far from charity,
    That in love's grief desir'st society;
    You do not love Maria! Longaville
    [To Dumain] And Jove for your love would infringe an oath.
    These worms for loving, that art most in love?
  BEROWNE. I post from love; good lover, let me go.
    Are pick-purses in love, and we deserve to die.
  KING. What, did these rent lines show some love of thine?
    My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
    O, but for my love, day would turn to night!
  KING. By heaven, thy love is black as ebony.
  LONGAVILLE. Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
  KING. But what of this? Are we not all in love?
    But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
    Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
    Love's tongue proves dainty Bacchus gross in taste.
    For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
    And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
    Until his ink were temp'red with Love's sighs;
    For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love;
    Or for Love's sake, a word that loves all men;
    And who can sever love from charity?
    Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. Nothing but this! Yes, as much love in rhyme
    Against your peace. Love doth approach disguis'd,
    And every one his love-feat will advance
    But will you hear? The King is my love sworn.
    My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
    Forbid the smiling courtesy of love
    Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
    As love is full of unbefitting strains,
    Which parti-coated presence of loose love
    Our love being yours, the error that love makes
  PRINCESS OF FRANCE. We have receiv'd your letters, full of love;
    Your favours, the ambassadors of love;
    If for my love, as there is no such cause,
    Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
    But that it bear this trial, and last love,
  BEROWNE. And what to me, my love? and what to me?
  DUMAIN. But what to me, my love? but what to me?
    With threefold love I wish you all these three.
    Then, if I have much love, I'll give you some.
    Impose some service on me for thy love.
    sweet love three year. But, most esteemed greatness, will you
    Safe toward your love and honor.
  MACBETH. My dearest love,
    The love that follows us sometime is our trouble,
    Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
    And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
    Conduct me to mine host. We love him highly,
    Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
    How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me-
    The expedition of my violent love
    That had a heart to love, and in that heart
    Courage to make 's love known?
    Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
    That I to your assistance do make love,
  MACBETH. So shall I, love, and so, I pray, be you.
    To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
    All is the fear and nothing is the love;
    Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
    Nothing in love. Now does he feel his title
    As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends,
    Lent him our terror, dress'd him with our love,
    I'll privily away. I love the people,
    From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
    shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love, may sigh it off.
    Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
    When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
  DUKE. Love you the man that wrong'd you?
  JULIET. Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
    Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
    Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
    For his advantage that I dearly love.
  ANGELO. Plainly conceive, I love you.
  ISABELLA. My brother did love Juliet,
  ANGELO. He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
  CLAUDIO. Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love with life
    Therefore fasten your ear on my advisings; to the love I have in
    there she lost a noble and renowned brother, in his love toward
    have quenched her love, hath, like an impediment in the current,
  LUCIO. Sir, I know him, and I love him.
  DUKE. Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with dearer
    love.
           Seals of love, but seal'd in vain, seal'd in vain.
    That for the fault's love is th' offender friended.
    With all th' effect of love.
  DUKE. I protest I love the Duke as I love myself.
    Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
    Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo;
  LORENZO, in love with Jessica
  SOLANIO. Why then you are in love.
  SOLANIO. Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad
    I love thee, and 'tis my love that speaks-
    I owe the most, in money and in love;
    And from your love I have a warranty
    To wind about my love with circumstance;
    chosen by any rightly but one who you shall rightly love. But
    love me to madness, I shall never requite him.
    I would be friends with you, and have your love,
    And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
    And let us make incision for your love
    Hath fear'd the valiant; by my love, I swear
  GRATIANO. Love-news, in faith!
    I am not bid for love; they flatter me;
    To seal love's bonds new made than they are wont
  LORENZO. Lorenzo, and thy love.
  JESSICA. Lorenzo, certain; and my love indeed;
    For who love I so much? And now who knows
    But love is blind, and lovers cannot see
    Why, 'tis an office of discovery, love,
  LORENZO. Beshrew me, but I love her heartily,
    But more than these, in love I do deserve.
    Let it not enter in your mind of love;
    To courtship, and such fair ostents of love
    So likely an ambassador of love.
  NERISSA. Bassanio, Lord Love, if thy will it be!        Exeunt
    There's something tells me- but it is not love-
    What treason there is mingled with your love.
    Which makes me fear th' enjoying of my love;
    'Tween snow and fire as treason and my love.
  BASSANIO. 'Confess' and 'love'
    If you do love me, you will find me out.
    With no less presence, but with much more love,
    O love, be moderate, allay thy ecstasy,
    Let it presage the ruin of your love,
    With oaths of love, at last- if promise last-
    To have her love, provided that your fortune
    When I did first impart my love to you,
    Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
    your love do not persuade you to come, let not my letter.'
  PORTIA. O love, dispatch all business and be gone!
    Whose souls do bear an equal yoke of love,
    The which my love and some necessity
    How honourable ladies sought my love,
    But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
    Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
  BASSANIO. Do all men kill the things they do not love?
    Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
  GRATIANO. I have a wife who I protest I love;
    In love and service to you evermore.
    [To BASSANIO]  And, for your love, I'll take this ring from you.
    And you in love shall not deny me this.
    Let his deservings, and my love withal,
    Upon the wild sea-banks, and waft her love
    And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
    Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
    Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
    Upon a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
    I gave my love a ring, and made him swear
    signifies love.
  SHALLOW. Cousin Abraham Slender, can you love her?
    I do is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
    be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may decrease
  SLENDER. I love the sport well; but I shall as soon quarrel at
    thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's wife; I
    I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
    have no words of it-my master himself is in love with
  MRS. PAGE. What! have I scap'd love-letters in the holiday-time
    'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though Love use
    more sympathy. You love sack, and so do I; would you
    at the least, if the love of soldier can suffice-that I love
    but I say, Love me. By me,
  FORD. Love my wife!
    Adieu! I love not the humour of bread and cheese; and
    Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
    briefly, I have pursu'd her as love hath pursued me; which
    'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
    FALSTAFF. Of what quality was your love, then?
  CAIUS. By gar, me dank you vor dat; by gar, I love you; and
  CAIUS. Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me; my nursh-a
  FALSTAFF. What made me love thee? Let that persuade thee
    cannot; but I love thee, none but thee; and thou deserv'st it.
  MRS. FORD. Do not betray me, sir; I fear you love Mistress
  FALSTAFF. Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
  MRS. FORD. Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you
  FALSTAFF.  [Aside to MRS. PAGE]  I love thee and none but
  FENTON. I see I cannot get thy father's love;
    I should love thee but as a property.
    Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir.
  SLENDER. Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
  PAGE. Now, Master Slender! Love him, daughter Anne-
  FENTON. Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
    I must advance the colours of my love,
    love.
    sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love, and I
    the simple office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
    With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page;
    Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love set on thy
    horns. O powerful love! that in some respects makes a
    Jupiter, a swan, for the love of Leda. O omnipotent love!
    meet. I will never take you for my love again; but I will
    Where there was no proportion held in love.
    In love, the heavens themselves do guide the state;
  LYSANDER, in love with Hermia
  DEMETRIUS, in love with Hermia
  HERMIA, daughter to Egeus, in love with Lysander
  HELENA, in love with Demetrius
    And won thy love doing thee injuries;
    And interchang'd love-tokens with my child;
    With feigning voice, verses of feigning love,
    The sealing-day betwixt my love and me
  LYSANDER. You have her father's love, Demetrius;
  EGEUS. Scornful Lysander, true, he hath my love;
    And what is mine my love shall render him;
    As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
    Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
    Come, my Hippolyta; what cheer, my love?
  LYSANDER. How now, my love! Why is your cheek so pale?
    The course of true love never did run smooth;
  HERMIA. O hell! to choose love by another's eyes.
    As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
  LYSANDER. Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
  HERMIA. I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
  HELENA. The more I love, the more he hateth me.
    O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
    Love can transpose to form and dignity.
    Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
    Nor hath Love's mind of any judgment taste;
    And therefore is Love said to be a child,
    So the boy Love is perjur'd everywhere;
  QUINCE. A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
  QUINCE. It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
    Playing on pipes of corn, and versing love
    Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
    Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
    And loos'd his love-shaft smartly from his bow,
    Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
    And maidens call it Love-in-idleness.
    She shall pursue it with the soul of love.
  DEMETRIUS. I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
    Tell you I do not nor I cannot love you?
  HELENA. And even for that do I love you the more.
    What worser place can I beg in your love,
    We cannot fight for love as men may do;
    To die upon the hand I love so well.             Exit HELENA
    Thou shalt fly him, and he shall seek thy love.
    A sweet Athenian lady is in love
    More fond on her than she upon her love.
    Do it for thy true-love take;
    Love and languish for his sake.
  LYSANDER. Fair love, you faint with wand'ring in the wood;
    Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
    But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
    Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
             This flower's force in stirring love.
             Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
             When thou wak'st let love forbid
    What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
    Not Hermia but Helena I love:
    Love's stories, written in Love's richest book.
    And, all my powers, address your love and might
    On the first view, to say, to swear, I love thee.
    And yet, to say the truth, reason and love keep little company
    And I do love thee; therefore, go with me.
    To have my love to bed and to arise;
    Tie up my love's tongue, bring him silently.          Exeunt
  PUCK. My mistress with a monster is in love.
    With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
    And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight.
    Some true love turn'd, and not a false turn'd true.
    With sighs of love that costs the fresh blood dear.
                When his love he doth espy,
    To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
    You both are rivals, and love Hermia;
    For you love Hermia. This you know I know;
    In Hermia's love I yield you up my part;
    Whom I do love and will do till my death.
    If e'er I lov'd her, all that love is gone.
    Look where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.
  LYSANDER. Why should he stay whom love doth press to go?
  HERMIA. What love could press Lysander from my side?
  LYSANDER. Lysander's love, that would not let him bide-
    And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
    And made your other love, Demetrius,
    Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
    So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
    But miserable most, to love unlov'd?
    My love, my life, my soul, fair Helena!
    Helen, I love thee, by my life I do;
    To prove him false that says I love thee not.
  DEMETRIUS. I say I love thee more than he can do.
    Sweet love?
  LYSANDER. Thy love! Out, tawny Tartar, out!
    Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love?
    That I do hate thee and love Helena.
    You thief of love! What! Have you come by night,
    And stol'n my love's heart from him?
    I evermore did love you, Hermia,
    Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
    He followed you; for love I followed him;
    Never so little show of love to her,
    I with the Morning's love have oft made sport;
  TITANIA. What, wilt thou hear some music, my sweet love?
  TITANIA. Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
    O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee!         [They sleep]
  OBERON. There lies your love.
    My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
    But by some power it is- my love to Hermia,
    Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
    Joy, gentle friends, joy and fresh days of love
    We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
    And his love Thisby; very tragical mirth.'
  HIPPOLYTA. I love not to see wretchedness o'er-charged,
    Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
  THISBY. My love! thou art my love, I think.
  THISBY. This is old Ninny's tomb. Where is my love?
  THISBY.      Asleep, my love?
    heart that I had not a hard heart, for truly I love none.
    my allegiance! he is in love. With who? Now that is your Grace's
  Pedro. Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
  Claud. That I love her, I feel.
  Pedro. I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
    love. Prove that ever I lose more blood with love than I will get
  Pedro. My love is thine to teach. Teach it but how,
    Than to drive liking to the name of love;
    If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
  Claud. How sweetly you do minister to love,
    That know love's grief by his complexion!
    fashion a carriage to rob love from any. In this, though I cannot
  Pedro. Speak low if you speak love.         [Takes her aside.]
  Balth. I love you the better. The hearers may cry Amen.
  John. Signior, you are very near my brother in his love. He is
    Save in the office and affairs of love.
    Therefore all hearts in love use their own tongues;
  Bene. O God, sir, here's a dish I love not! I cannot endure my Lady
  Claud. To-morrow, my lord. Time goes on crutches till love have all
    your cousin, that she shall fall in love with Benedick; and I,
    stomach, he shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
    the only love-gods. Go in with me, and I will tell you my drift.
    a kind of zeal both to the Prince and Claudio, as--in love of
    another man is a fool when he dedicates his behaviours to love,
    become the argument of his own scorn by falling in love; and such
    love may transform me to an oyster; but I'll take my oath on it,
    please God. Ha, the Prince and Monsieur Love! I will hide me in
    your niece Beatrice was in love with Signior Benedick?
    that I love him?'"
    love him, I should.'
    if he love her not, and she will die ere she make her love known,
  Pedro. She doth well. If she should make tender of her love, 'tis
    her love?
    cool the while. I love Benedick well, and I could wish he would
    It seems her affections have their full bent. Love me? Why, it
    myself proudly if I perceive the love come from her. They say too
    her folly, for I will be horribly in love with her. I may chance
    some marks of love in her.
    do not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not love her, I
    Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
  Hero. O god of love! I know he doth deserve
    All matter else seems weak. She cannot love,
    She knew his love, lest she'll make sport at it.
    And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
    If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
  Claud. I hope he be in love.
    truly touch'd with love. If he be sad, he wants money.
  Claud. Yet say I he is in love.
  Claud. If he be not in love with some woman, there is no believing
  Claud. That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
    he is in love.
  John. You may think I love you not. Let that appear hereafter, and
    wedding day. If you love her then, to-morrow wed her. But it
  Marg. Clap's into 'Light o' love.' That goes without a burden. Do
  Beat. Yea, 'Light o' love' with your heels! then, if your husband
    in love. Nay, by'r lady, I am not such a fool to think what I
    love, or that you will be in love, or that you can be in love.
    Bashful sincerity and comely love.
    For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
    (If ever love had interest in his liver)
    And though you know my inwardness and love
  Bene. I do love nothing in the world so well as you. Is not that
  Bene. I will swear by it that you love me, and I will make him eat
    it that says I love not you.
  Bene. With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest I love
  Beat. I love you with so much of my heart that none is left to
  Beat. I am gone, though I am here. There is no love in you. Nay, I
  Bene. Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
  Beat. Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
    hate him deadly, she would love him dearly. The old man's
    love of Beatrice.
    How innocent she died; and if your love
       [Sings] The god of love,
    over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I cannot show it in
    for which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
    them. But for which of my good parts did you first suffer love
  Bene. Suffer love!--a good epithet. I do suffer love indeed, for I
    love thee against my will.
    love that which my friend hates.
  Bene. Serve God, love me, and mend. There will I leave you too, for
  Bene. And I do with an eye of love requite her.
    When he would play the noble beast in love.
  Bene. Do not you love me?
  Beat. Do not you love me?
  Bene. 'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
  Leon. Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
    that thou art like to be my kinsman, live unbruis'd, and love my
    To love the Moor.
    Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
    I must show out a flag and sign of love,
    But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
    Of my whole course of love: what drugs, what charms,
    To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
    How I did thrive in this fair lady's love
  DESDEMONA. That I did love the Moor to live with him,
    The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
    Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
  IAGO. If thou dost, I shall never love thee after.
    an injury, I never found man that knew how to love himself. Ere I
    would say I would drown myself for the love of a guinea hen, I
    our unbitted lusts; whereof I take this, that you call love, to
    continue her love to the Moor- put money in thy purse- nor he his
    Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
    I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
    be'st valiant- as they say base men being in love have then a
    must tell thee this: Desdemona is directly in love with him.
    telling her fantastical lies. And will she love him still for
    A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too,
    Make the Moor thank me, love me, and reward me
    Let me have speech with you. Come, my dear love,
    general cast us thus early for the love of his Desdemona; who let
  IAGO. And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
    Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
    I do love Cassio well, and would do much
    Speak: who began this? On thy love, I charge thee.
    Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
    Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee,
    Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
    think you think I love you.
    love shall grow stronger than it was before.
  IAGO. I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
    His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
    music, that he desires you, for love's sake, to make no more
  DESDEMONA. I know't: I thank you. You do love my lord:
    My general will forget my love and service.
    To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
    Wherein I mean to touch your love indeed,
    But I do love thee! and when I love thee not,
    Know of your love?
    Some horrible conceit. If thou dost love me,
  IAGO. My lord, you know I love you.
    And for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty
    Away at once with love or jealousy!
    To show the love and duty that I bear you
    Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved;
    Than keep a corner in the thing I love
  OTHELLO. Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore;
    I'll love no friend sith love breeds such offense.
    Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
    All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
    Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
    Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
  OTHELLO.                     I greet thy love,
    Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
    Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
    Exist and be a member of his love
    Can ransom me into his love again,
    I'faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
  CASSIO. Not that I love you not.
  BIANCA.                          But that you do not love me.
  IAGO. I never knew a woman love man so.
    will marry her, out of her own love and flattery, not out of my
    To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
    If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love
    To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly,
    But never taint my love. I cannot say "whore."
  DESDEMONA. So would not I. My love doth so approve him,
    She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
        "I call'd my love false love; but what said he then?
    And love thee after. One more, and this the last;
    It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
    As I might love. I never gave him token.
  EMILIA. O mistress, villainy hath made mocks with love!
    With that recognizance and pledge of love
    In the devotion of a subject's love,
    Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
    Embrace each other's love in banishment;
    I wander from the jewels that I love.
    Love they to live that love and honour have.
  KING RICHARD. Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
  GREEN. Besides, our nearness to the King in love
    Is near the hate of those love not the King.
  BAGOT. And that is the wavering commons; for their love
    And as my fortune ripens with thy love,
    It shall be still thy true love's recompense.
  BOLINGBROKE. Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
    Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
    Near to the King in blood, and near in love
    With letters of your love to her at large.
  SCROOP. Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
    Me rather had my heart might feel your love
    As my true service shall deserve your love.
    Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
    Little are we beholding to your love,
    And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
    The love of wicked men converts to fear;
  KING RICHARD. Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
  NORTHUMBERLAND. That were some love, but little policy.
    And yet I love him.
    To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
    Shall I, for love, speak treason to thy face?
    Fear, and not love, begets his penitence.
    Love loving not itself, none other can.
    For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
  KING RICHARD. If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
  BOLINGBROKE. They love not poison that do poison need,
    I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
    I-that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
    Simple, plain Clarence, I do love thee so
    The which will I-not all so much for love
    This hand, which for thy love did kill thy love,
    Shall for thy love kill a far truer love;
    And then return lamenting to my love.
    That I, forsooth, am stern and love them not?
    By holy Paul, they love his Grace but lightly
  CLARENCE. My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
  FIRST MURDERER. Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy
  CLARENCE. If you do love my brother, hate not me;
    I am his brother, and I love him well.
    And charg'd us from his soul to love each other,
    Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
    And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
  HASTINGS. So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
  RIVERS. And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
    Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
  KING EDWARD. Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love Lord
  DORSET. This interchange of love, I here protest,
    Upon your Grace, but with all duteous love
    With hate in those where I expect most love!
    When I am cold in love to you or yours.
    Made peace of enmity, fair love of hate,
    I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
  GLOUCESTER. Why, madam, have I off'red love for this,
    Who spoke of brotherhood? Who spoke of love?
  DUCHESS. Peace, children, peace! The King doth love you
    And he would love me dearly as a child.
    Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
    Now cheer each other in each other's love.
    Lord Hastings, you and he are near in love.
    Can lesser hide his love or hate than he;
  HASTINGS. The tender love I bear your Grace, my lord,
    The rest that love me, rise and follow me.
    I bid them that did love their country's good
    Argues your wisdoms and your love to Richard.'
    He is not lolling on a lewd love-bed,
    By heaven, we come to him in perfect love;
    So season'd with your faithful love to me,
    Your love deserves my thanks, but my desert
  BUCKINGHAM. Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
  BUCKINGHAM. If you refuse it-as, in love and zeal,
    On pure heart's love, to greet the tender Princes.
    Hath he set bounds between their love and me?
  ANNE. Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother.
    And I will love thee and prefer thee for it.
  KING RICHARD. Then know, that from my soul I love thy
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. That thou dost love my daughter from
    So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers,
    And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
    I mean that with my soul I love thy daughter
    If this inducement move her not to love,
  KING RICHARD. Say that I did all this for love of her.
    Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
    A grandam's name is little less in love
    That God, the law, my honour, and her love
  KING RICHARD. Say I will love her everlastingly.
    To my proceeding!-if, with dear heart's love,
    Be the attorney of my love to her;
  KING RICHARD. Bear her my true love's kiss; and so, farewell.
    Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
    God give us leisure for these rites of love!
    Alack, I love myself. Wherefore? For any good
    The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
  Ben. In love?
  Ben. Of love?
  Rom. Out of her favour where I am in love.
  Ben. Alas that love, so gentle in his view,
  Rom. Alas that love, whose view is muffled still,
    Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
    Why then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
    This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
  Rom. Why, such is love's transgression.
    With more of thine. This love that thou hast shown
    Love is a smoke rais'd with the fume of sighs;
  Ben. Tell me in sadness, who is that you love?
    In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
  Rom. A right good markman! And she's fair I love.
    From Love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
    She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
    Such as I love; and you among the store,
    One fairer than my love? The all-seeing sun
    Your lady's love against some other maid
    The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
  Wife. What say you? Can you love the gentleman?
    This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
  Wife. Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
    Under love's heavy burthen do I sink.
  Mer. And, to sink in it, should you burthen love-
  Rom. Is love a tender thing? It is too rough,
  Mer. If love be rough with you, be rough with love.
    Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
    Of this sir-reverence love, wherein thou stick'st
    Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
    Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight!
  Jul. My only love, sprung from my only hate!
    Prodigious birth of love it is to me
    That I must love a loathed enemy.
    That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
    And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks.
    And she as much in love, her means much less
    Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove';
    Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
  Mer. If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
    It is my lady; O, it is my love!
    Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
    Call me but love, and I'll be new baptiz'd;
  Rom. With love's light wings did I o'erperch these walls;
    For stony limits cannot hold love out,
    And what love can do, that dares love attempt.
    And but thou love me, let them find me here.
    Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
  Rom. By love, that first did prompt me to enquire.
    Dost thou love me, I know thou wilt say 'Ay';
    If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully.
    My true-love passion. Therefore pardon me,
    And not impute this yielding to light love,
    Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
  Rom. If my heart's dear love-
    This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
  Rom. Th' exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
  Rom. Would'st thou withdraw it? For what purpose, love?
    My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
    I hear some noise within. Dear love, adieu!
    If that thy bent of love be honourable,
    Love goes toward love as schoolboys from their books;
    But love from love, towards school with heavy looks.
    Rememb'ring how I love thy company.
  Rom. Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
    Is Rosaline, that thou didst love so dear,
    So soon forsaken? Young men's love then lies
    To season love, that of it doth not taste!
  Rom. And bad'st me bury love.
  Rom. I pray thee chide not. She whom I love now
    Doth grace for grace and love for love allow.
    Thy love did read by rote, that could not spell.
    To turn your households' rancour to pure love.
    wench's black eye; shot through the ear with a love song; the
    better love to berhyme her), Dido a dowdy, Cleopatra a gypsy,
  Mer. Why, is not this better now than groaning for love? Now art
    art as well as by nature. For this drivelling love is like a
    O, she is lame! Love's heralds should be thoughts,
    Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw Love,
    My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
    Sweet, sweet, Sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
  Nurse. Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a courteous,
    'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
    To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
    Then love-devouring death do what he dare-
    Therefore love moderately: long love doth so;
    But my true love is grown to such excess
  Tyb. Romeo, the love I bear thee can afford
  Rom. Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
    But love thee better than thou canst devise
    Till thou shalt know the reason of my love;
    Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
    By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
    With thy black mantle till strange love, grown bold,
    Think true love acted simple modesty.
    That all the world will be in love with night
    O, I have bought the mansion of a love,
    Wert thou as young as I, Juliet thy love,
    My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
    Fie, fie, thou shamest thy shape, thy love, thy wit,
    Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit.
    Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
    Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
    Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
    Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love.
    Go get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
    Of my child's love. I think she will be rul'd
    Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love
    Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
    No nightingale. Look, love, what envious streaks
  Jul. Art thou gone so, my lord, my love, my friend?
    That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
  Rom. And trust me, love, in my eye so do you.
    Therefore have done. Some grief shows much of love;
    To wreak the love I bore my cousin Tybalt
    But thankful even for hate that is meant love.
    To answer 'I'll not wed, I cannot love;
    And therefore have I little talk'd of love;
  Par. That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
  Par. Do not deny to him that you love me.
  Jul. I will confess to you that I love him.
  Par. So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
    To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
  Jul. Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
    And gave him what becomed love I might,
    Why, love, I say! madam! sweetheart! Why, bride!
    O love! O life! not life, but love in death
    O, in this love, you love your child so ill
    Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
    When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
    To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
    That murd'red my love's cousin- with which grief
    By heaven, I love thee better than myself,
    Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
    Here's to my love! [Drinks.] O true apothecary!
    One that you love.
    What's here? A cup, clos'd in my true love's hand?
    Their course of love, the tidings of her death;
    That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love!
  LUCENTIO, son to Vincentio, in love with Bianca
    Tell him from me- as he will win my love-
    May show her duty and make known her love?'
    Dost thou love hawking? Thou hast hawks will soar
  SECOND SERVANT. Dost thou love pictures? We will fetch thee
    And by my father's love and leave am arm'd
    If either of you both love Katherina,
    Because I know you well and love you well,
    For I will love thee ne'er the less, my girl.
    here's none will hold you. There! Love is not so great,
    out; our cake's dough on both sides. Farewell; yet, for the love
    our fair mistress, and be happy rivals in Bianca's love- to
    That love should of a sudden take such hold?
    I found the effect of love in idleness;
    If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so:
    I pray, awake, sir. If you love the maid,
    Master, your love must live a maid at home;
    Because so well I love Lucentio.
    Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
    Suitors to her and rivals in my love;
    Have leave and leisure to make love to her,
  HORTENSIO. Peace, Grumio! It is the rival of my love. Petruchio,
    All books of love, see that at any hand;
  HORTENSIO. Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love.
  TRANIO. I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
    That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
    And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
    Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,
    That is, her love; for that is all in all.
    I love her ten times more than e'er I did.
    That in a twink she won me to her love.
  TRANIO. And I am one that love Bianca more
  GREMIO. Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
  TRANIO. Greybeard, thy love doth freeze.
    Shall have my Bianca's love.
    thus to get your love- 'Hic steterat' and that Lucentio that
    Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love.
    Methinks he looks as though he were in love.
  TRANIO. But to her love concerneth us to ad
  KATHERINA. Now, if you love me, stay.
    And serve it thus to me that love it not?
  LUCENTIO. I read that I profess, 'The Art to Love.'
  TRANIO. O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
    Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
    Shall win my love; and so I take my leave,
    Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
    Take in your love, and then let me alone.
    He does it under name of perfect love;
  KATHERINA. A dish that I do love to feed upon.
    Here, love, thou seest how diligent I am,
    Kate, eat apace. And now, my honey love,
    I love thee well in that thou lik'st it not.
  KATHERINA. Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
    Of love between your daughter and himself;
    And for the love he beareth to your daughter,
    Doth love my daughter, and she loveth him,
  LUCENTIO. Love wrought these miracles. Bianca's love
  KATHERINA. Nay, I will give thee a kiss; now pray thee, love, stay.
  PETRUCHIO. Marry, peace it bodes, and love, and quiet life,
    But love, fair looks, and true obedience-
    When they are bound to serve, love, and obey.
  BOATSWAIN. None that I more love than myself. You are
    So dear the love my people bore me; nor set
    I do not love to look on.
    And I the King shall love thee.
  MIRANDA. Do you love me?
    Do love, prize, honour you.
    Were but my trials of thy love, and thou
    With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
    Do you love me, master? No?
  IRIS. A contract of true love to celebrate,
    A contract of true love; be not too late.
  FERDINAND. No, my dearest love,
    Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
    Attempts her love; I prithee, noble lord,
  TIMON. Does she love him?
  TIMON. Love you the maid?
    That there should be small love amongst these sweet knaves,
    Honest Ventidius! You mistake my love;
    free love, hath presented to you four milk-white horses, trapp'd
    Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
    Have smit my credit. I love and honour him,
    If I would broach the vessels of my love,
    So much I love his heart. But I perceive
    It shows but little love or judgment in him.
    Of such a nature is his politic love.
    And, for I know your reverend ages love
    That I might love thee something.
  TIMON. Be a whore still; they love thee not that use thee.
  APEMANTUS. I love thee better now than e'er I did.
    I am sick of this false world, and will love nought
  APEMANTUS. Live, and love thy misery!
    Has uncheck'd theft. Love not yourselves; away,
    When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
    Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
  TIMON. What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I love thee
    That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
    Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
  TIMON. Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,
    The senators with one consent of love
    Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth
    And write in thee the figures of their love,
    But I do prize it at my love before
  TIMON. But yet I love my country, and am not
    Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
    Yet our old love had a particular force,
    Transformed Timon to our city's love
    And so I love and honour thee and thine,
    And to the love and favour of my country
    These that survive let Rome reward with love;
    That is another's lawful promis'd love.                 Exit
    My true betrothed love, and now my wife?
    This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
    And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
    That for her love such quarrels may be broach'd
    I love Lavinia more than all the world.
    And cannot brook competitors in love?
    Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
    Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
    And let her joy her raven-coloured love;
    Revenge it, as you love your mother's life,
    As half thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
    Sends thee this word, that, if thou love thy sons,
    Now let me show a brother's love to thee.
    And if ye love me, as I think you do,
  MARCUS. For love of her that's gone,
  CHIRON. A charitable wish and full of love.
    'Tis he the common people love so much;
    This do thou for my love; and so let him,
    For peace, for love, for league, and good to Rome.
    To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
    In Cressid's love. Thou answer'st 'She is fair'-
    As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
    Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me
    Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
  CRESSIDA. If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
    Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
    Love got so sweet as when desire did sue;
    Therefore this maxim out of love I teach:
    Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
    In fortune's love? For then the bold and coward,
    To rouse a Grecian that is true in love.
    That means not, hath not, or is not in love.
    To answer for his love, tell him from me
  SERVANT. At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
    the heart-blood of beauty, love's invisible soul-
  PANDARUS. My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have, sweet
  HELEN. Let thy song be love. This love will undo us all. O Cupid,
  PANDARUS. Love! Ay, that it shall, i' faith.
  PARIS. Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
    Love, love, nothing but love, still love, still more!
           For, oh, love's bow
       So dying love lives still.
  HELEN. In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
  PARIS. He eats nothing but doves, love; and that breeds hot blood,
    deeds, and hot deeds is love.
  PANDARUS. Is this the generation of love: hot blood, hot thoughts,
    and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers. Is love a generation of
  PARIS. Sweet, above thought I love thee.                     Exeunt
    Love's thrice-repured nectar? Death, I fear me;
    love?
    difficulty imposed. This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that
    I love you now; but till now not so much
  CRESSIDA. Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
    Or else you love not; for to be wise and love
    To feed for aye her lamp and flames of love;
    Of such a winnowed purity in love.
    True swains in love shall in the world to come
    From false to false, among false maids in love,
    The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
    Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
    'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love
    And your great love to me restrains you thus.
    No man alive can love in such a sort
    The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
    As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love
    No kin, no love, no blood, no soul so near me
    But the strong base and building of my love
  PARIS. I know what 'tis to love,
    My love admits no qualifying dross;
  TROILUS. Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity
  TROILUS. Hear me, my love. Be thou but true of heart-
  TROILUS. Hear why I speak it, love.
  CRESSIDA. O heavens! you love me not.
    In love whereof half Hector stays at home;
    Is more vindicative than jealous love.
    But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.          Exeunt
    A token from her daughter, my fair love,
    The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
    Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
  TROILUS. For th' love of all the gods,
    Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
    My love with words and errors still she feeds,
  THERSITES. I am a bastard too; I love bastards. I am a bastard
  DUKE. If music be the food of love, play on,
    O spirit of love, how quick and fresh art thou!
    A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
    To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
    How will she love when the rich golden shaft
    Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bow'rs.
    That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
    Who shortly also died; for whose dear love,
    in question the continuance of his love. Is he inconstant, sir,
  DUKE. O, then unfold the passion of my love,
  OLIVIA. O, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste with a
    My lord and master loves you- O, such love
  OLIVIA. How does he love me?
    With groans that thunder love, with sighs of fire.
  OLIVIA. Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him.
    A gracious person; but yet I cannot love him.
  VIOLA. If I did love you in my master's flame,
    Write loyal cantons of contemned love
    I cannot love him; let him send no more-
    Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;
    were a bad recompense for your love to lay any of them on you.
  ANTONIO. If you will not murder me for my love, let me be your
    Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
    My state is desperate for my master's love;
CLOWN. Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
  SIR TOBY. A love-song, a love-song.
         O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
           What is love? 'Tis not hereafter;
  AGUECHEEK. An you love me, let's do't. I am dog at a catch.
  MARIA. For the love o' God, peace!
    of faith that all that look on him love him; and on that vice in
  MARIA. I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of love;
    they come from my niece, and that she's in love with him.
    Come hither, boy. If ever thou shalt love,
    Where Love is thron'd.
  DUKE. Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
    And dallies with the innocence of love,
    Tell her my love, more noble than the world,
  VIOLA. But if she cannot love you, sir?
    Hath for your love as great a pang of heart
    As you have for Olivia. You cannot love her;
    As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
    Alas, their love may be call'd appetite-
    Between that love a woman can bear me
  VIOLA. Too well what love women to men may owe.
  VIOLA. A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
    Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
    Much in our vows, but little in our love.
  DUKE. But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
    My love can give no place, bide no denay.             Exeunt
    his own shadow this half hour. Observe him, for the love of
                    Jove knows I love,
    cross-garter'd; and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
    entertain'st my love, let it appear in thy smiling; thy smiles
  OLIVIA. That's a degree to love.
    Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
    I love thee so that, maugre all thy pride,
    Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
    That heart which now abhors to like his love.         Exeunt
  FABIAN. This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
    thyself there is no love-broker in the world can more prevail in
    And not all love to see you- though so much
    Rough and unhospitable. My willing love,
  VIOLA. Nothing but this- your true love for my master.
  ANTONIO. One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
    Reliev'd him with such sanctity of love,
    Tempests are kind, and salt waves fresh in love!        Exit
    My love without retention or restraint,
    Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
    Kill what I love?- a savage jealousy
    But this your minion, whom I know you love,
    I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love
  VIOLA. After him I love
    More than I love these eyes, more than my life,
    More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
    Punish my life for tainting of my love!
  PRIEST. A contract of eternal bond of love,
  AGUECHEEK. For the love of God, a surgeon!
    bloody coxcomb too. For the love of God, your help! I had rather
    Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
    To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
    But since thou lov'st, love still, and thrive therein,
    Even as I would, when I to love begin.
  VALENTINE. And on a love-book pray for my success?
  PROTEUS. Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
  VALENTINE. That's on some shallow story of deep love:
  PROTEUS. That's a deep story of a deeper love;
    For he was more than over shoes in love.
  VALENTINE. 'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
  VALENTINE. To be in love- where scorn is bought with groans,
  PROTEUS. 'Tis love you cavil at; I am not Love.
  VALENTINE. Love is your master, for he masters you;
    The eating canker dwells, so eating love
    Even so by love the young and tender wit
    Of thy success in love, and what news else
  PROTEUS. He after honour hunts, I after love;
    I leave myself, my friends, and all for love.
    Wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love?
    In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
  JULIA. And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
  LUCETTA. Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
  JULIA. His little speaking shows his love but small.
  JULIA. They do not love that do not show their love.
  LUCETTA. O, they love least that let men know their love.
  LUCETTA. To plead for love deserves more fee than hate.
    Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love,
  JULIA. Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
    Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' Love.'
    And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
  PROTEUS. Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
    Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
    Lest he should take exceptions to my love;
    Hath he excepted most against my love.
    O, how this spring of love resembleth
  VALENTINE. Why, how know you that I am in love?
    love-song, like a robin redbreast; to walk alone, like one that
  SPEED. If you love her, you cannot see her.
  SPEED. Because Love is blind. O that you had mine eyes; or your own
    being in love, could not see to garter his hose; and you, being
    in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
  VALENTINE. Belike, boy, then you are in love; for last morning you
  SPEED. True, sir; I was in love with my bed. I thank you, you
    swing'd me for my love, which makes me the bolder to chide you
    Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.'
  SPEED. Ay, but hearken, sir; though the chameleon Love can feed on
    Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
    Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak;
  VALENTINE. Ay, boy, it's for love.
    He is as worthy for an empress' love
  VALENTINE. Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
  THURIO. They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
    Upon a homely object Love can wink.              Exit THURIO
  VALENTINE. How does your lady, and how thrives your love?
  PROTEUS. My tales of love were wont to weary you;
    I know you joy not in a love-discourse.
    I have done penance for contemning Love,
    For, in revenge of my contempt of love,
    Love hath chas'd sleep from my enthralled eyes
    O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
    Now no discourse, except it be of love;
    Upon the very naked name of love.
  VALENTINE. O, flatter me; for love delights in praises!
    Except thou wilt except against my love.
    Because thou seest me dote upon my love.
    For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
    So the remembrance of my former love
    She is fair; and so is Julia that I love-
    That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
    And that I love him not as I was wont.
    O! but I love his lady too too much,
    And that's the reason I love him so little.
    That thus without advice begin to love her!
    If I can check my erring love, I will;
  LAUNCE. Why, I tell thee I care not though he burn himself in love.
    To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
    Love bade me swear, and Love bids me forswear.
    O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinn'd,
    I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
    But there I leave to love where I should love.
    For love is still most precious in itself;
    Rememb'ring that my love to her is dead;
    Love, lend me wings to make my purpose swift,
    And, ev'n in kind love, I do conjure thee,
    Much less shall she that hath Love's wings to fly,
    Didst thou but know the inly touch of love.
    As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
  LUCETTA. I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
    Till the last step have brought me to my love;
    With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots-
    And instances of infinite of love,
    His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
    Only deserve my love by loving him.
    This love of theirs myself have often seen,
    For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
    Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;
    For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
    But rather to beget more love in you;
  DUKE. This very night; for Love is like a child,
    By heaven! my wrath shall far exceed the love
    Here if thou stay thou canst not see thy love;
    Even in the milk-white bosom of thy love.
    Of all that may concern thy love affairs.
    one knave. He lives not now that knows me to be in love; yet I am
    in love; but a team of horse shall not pluck that from me; nor
    who 'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman I will not
  LAUNCE. I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
  SPEED. Why didst not tell me sooner? Pox of your love letters!
  DUKE. Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you
  DUKE. This weak impress of love is as a figure
    The love of Valentine, and love Sir Thurio?
    She shall not long continue love to him.
    But say this weed her love from Valentine,
    It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
  THURIO. Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
    You are already Love's firm votary
    To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
  DUKE. This discipline shows thou hast been in love.
    Love thee as our commander and our king.
    I have access my own love to prefer;
    Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love
  PROTEUS. Ay, gentle Thurio; for you know that love
  THURIO. Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
         Love doth to her eyes repair,
    Return, return, and make thy love amends.
  PROTEUS. I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;
    Assure thyself my love is buried.
    Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
    And to your shadow will I make true love.
    As when thy lady and thy true love died,
    As you do love your lady Silvia.
    She dreams on him that has forgot her love:
    You dote on her that cares not for your love.
    'Tis pity love should be so contrary;
    Because I love him, I must pity him.
    I am my master's true confirmed love,
    Since she respects my mistress' love so much.
    Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
    If that be all the difference in his love,
    If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
    To make my master out of love with thee.                Exit
  JULIA.  [Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what it loathes.
  THURIO. But well when I discourse of love and peace?
    Than for the love of reckless Silvia.                   Exit
  PROTEUS. And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
  JULIA. And I will follow, more to cross that love
    Than hate for Silvia, that is gone for love.            Exit
    They love me well; yet I have much to do
    That would have forc'd your honour and your love.
    Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
    O, heaven be judge how I love Valentine,
    O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approv'd,
    When women cannot love where they're belov'd!
  SILVIA. When Proteus cannot love where he's belov'd!
    Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
    Descended into perjury, to love me.
  PROTEUS. In love,
    And love you 'gainst the nature of love- force ye.
  VALENTINE. Thou common friend, that's without faith or love-
    And, that my love may appear plain and free,
    In a disguise of love.
    I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
    And think thee worthy of an empress' love.
    Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
    I love thee not a jar o' th' clock behind
    And clap thyself my love; then didst thou utter
    Who I do think is mine, and love as mine-
    I were a baby still. I love you better.
    With such a kind of love as might become
    A lady like me; with a love even such,
    To you and toward your friend; whose love had spoke,
    The love I bore your queen- lo, fool again!
    Humbling their deities to love, have taken
  PERDITA. No; like a bank for love to lie and play on;
  CLOWN. He could never come better; he shall come in. I love a
    love-songs for maids; so without bawdry, which is strange; with
  CLOWN. If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take no
  MOPSA. Pray now, buy some. I love a ballad in print a-life, for
  DORCAS.    Thou hast sworn my love to be.
    And handed love as you do, I was wont
    Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
    Without her love; for her employ them all;
    Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
    You have heard of my poor services i' th' love
    If you may please to think I love the King,
    Prosperity's the very bond of love,
    love with the wenches' song that he would not stir his pettitoes
  GENTLEMAN. Women will love her that she is a woman
  Love to myself, and to no love beside.
  Love lacked a dwelling and made him her place;
  For feasts of love I have been called unto,
  Love made them not; with acture they may be,
  To spend her living in eternal love.
  Religious love put out religion's eye.
  As compound love to physic your cold breast.
  O most potential love, vow, bond, nor space,
  Love's arms are peace, 'gainst rule, 'gainst sense, 'gainst shame.
